you just describe the workflowversus genuinely using something likecloud code to build out like what thatworkflow would look like with you knowPython APIs a genuine automationpipeline and processthat your open claw can actually justtrigger upon um whenever it's likecontextually relevant. So for instance,this this whole pipeline here of likegoing to these websites, looking at thisproduct information, downloading theinformation, parsing it, uploading it toZoho, the trigger of all of that is uhyou know the open claw being CCD in anemail and it seeing that email it has alink that is relevant for this type ofworkflow to be triggered. So that thatis like the thing that's like thelistening event that open clock can dowith like a cron job that it sets up tojust like okay listen for this triggerand then once that trigger starts it canthen activate the whole Python scriptworkflow automation everything that youwould need downstream of that. So you'renot relying too much on open claw's likeum abilities in and of itself. you'remore of so creating specialized AIworkers under each uh underneath theopen claw that it can call individuallyif that makes sense.>> You know, you talked earlier about subagents. I think a lot of people areconfused about what is a sub agentversus a task and stuff like that. Canyou just clearly explain that?>> Yeah. Um so sub sub aents are um I I Ithere's a couple ways to view them,right? So like in the context of cuzthere and the reason I say there's acouple ways to view them is becausethere's a couple ways of using them. Soin the context of like open claw you canask it to spin up five research subaents that all go and research somegiven task and and like and you knowlike I said earlier you could you couldhave it parallelize that task across youknow splitting it up across each subagent or having each sub aent actuallygo and do the same task you know acrossfive different instances. But the nextthing around sub aents is that you canactually like you said um maybe think ofthem in terms of skills. So if you'refamiliar with anthropic skills um youcan have like these specializedinstructions and rules along with actualcode that you can provide to your agentfor it to be able to go and do a giventask. And this is really nice um becauseit, you know, it gives you a very moreper uh a very more powerful generalpurpose agent that can do many of yourspecific nuance tasks um across variousdomains. But the thing is is like I wantmy general agent to be freed up and uhto more so just be the orchestrator. Andwhat if the the general agent this oneright the the one I have start here canjust call a sub agent like worker numberfour here to do a given skill that youhave created. So if your skill is thatit goes on Twitter and finds the mostviral ideas and it bookmarks them. Umrather than having your main agent dothat and now you can't talk to your mainagent for the next 20 minutes becauseit's working on that. Can it call thatskill into a sub agent and have the subagent do that? That I think is wherethings get really interesting and and interms of the context of like deployingopen clause for businesses. I wouldthink of everything that you have interms of an AI automation opportunityaround workflows, skills, tasks, etc. Iwould actually just create that as itsown like specific sub agent with its ownskill that that your open call couldthen call if that does that make sense?>> It does. It does.>> Nice. Um it's it's you know I think thebasic idea is like you know in layman'sterms it'sas soon as you have yourum your open claw instance you know dosomething they're busy you know it'slike they got to they've got a a mug ofhot coffee and so you and your your jobis you want to leverage this as much aspossible. you don't want, you know, youragent to hold a a hot coffee. So, if ifyou ask it to do to move this desk intothis area, you know, it it says, "No,I'm holding a a cup of hot coffee. Ican't do that." So, what sub agents dois it basically creates leveragefor your open claw and it basically sayslike, "Okay, I'm you're going to createa set of sub agents who are going to begood at XYZ thing." And that way itfrees up your your main agent to to youknow as you say orchestrate to basicallybe the manager of the sub agents. Uh andyou know what that could mean is uh likelooking at um quality of work. It canmean uh checking for certain things andstuff like that.>> Exactly. Exactly. I think that's goingto be huge. You know, when when youstart working with these businesses andand customers who want things to beautomatedonce you show them what's possible,their eyes light up. They get all theseideas themselves. These are high agencypeople, you know, they they come up withcreative ideas that they want to startimplementing and and then what yourealize is there's just a a huge a hugelist of things that can be automated andthey're excited about that. And and soactually like the the ability to okayfirst solve a vertical specific workflowfor for a customer and then that openingup their mind and then them being likeoh I wonder if I could could I text thisthing and it does this. This is kind ofwhere like the whole open claw moment umis really powerful. It's like it's it'sthe it's the it's the assistant likecapability. It's the you know I have itI have it here. It's like what a lot ofpeople might get confused about. Why isit that open call is so special? It'sit's the ability that that it has itsown computer. It's running 24/7. You cantext it and you can schedule tasks andreally if if we just removed OpenClawfrom this card here and you just calledthis a really good employee, it it wouldjust make sense be like, "Oh, works 247,can code, can schedule tasks, I can textit, and they have their own computer."Um, so I think that's like kind of whyOpen Claw is exciting for a lot ofpeople. And if it's not, you know, ifsome people think it's it's overhyped,you have to kind of look at the wholepicture, I think, and and then you'reable to really gauge it.>> So I I'm certainly bought in on this onthis idea that, you know, it potentiallyit could be be a really good employee. Ithink there's also cases where peoplearen't setting up their open claw in theright way where it ends up being a bademployee. Um, and I think, you know,that's sort of like the the issue withthat is, you know, sometimes you have abad employee because the manager, thecoach essentially is is not doing a goodjob at giving the right context at theright time. So I think you know do youhave any tips and tricks around umbesides spinning up sub aents like howhow could people listening to this ifthey want to go after this opportunityof um essentially verticalize you knowopen clause uh and automating some ofthese flows. How could people actuallyyou know take their open claw from a bademployee to a good employee? Yeah, Ithink it comes down to let's maybe weshould walk through. So I know you haveI was actually looking at this. So ideabrowser. So for everyone if you don'tknow Greg has this amazing product ideabrowser and I love this trend to thisidea today Tik Tok trend tool thatcatches viral waves before they peak. SoI was actually looking at this thismorning. I was like, "Wow, this isactually something that you can maybeturn into a skill for an open claw tocreate a specialized skill around this."So, let's just do a live. Let's see. I Igenuinely don't know how far can we get.Can we build this out now? Let's see ifI copy all of that. And now I'm here inthe open claw that that we set up foryou. And you can see it just got set up.It's it I just told it, hey, I'm GregEisenberg. So, we're getting started.That's it. And let's just say I want tobuild a um a a specialized skill to beable to do the following. And I'm justgoing to paste that entire um ideabrowser idea. And I'm going to ask it asfar as like creating these automations,creating workflows, or doing anythingwith OpenClaw, my number one tip isalways ask it to ask you questions. So,what do you need from meum to be able to build this out? Umlet's create a plan. And so, a lot ofpeople need to remember OpenClaw is likea almost a little bit of a wrapperaround like clawed code in a way. Um so,let's see. Okay, cool. This is a bigvision, Greg. I like it. Let's breakdown um a realistic build as an openclawskill.So now it's saying okay I need dataaccessI need the scope I need the niche focusum that'll shape what we build a leanskill so the first thing that we canmaybe do ishere in like orgo we have thisplayground mode and you can ask theplayground agent here to do things inthis computer in this this computerenvironment. Um, so one thing I mighttest first is like can we get can we getthis agent to even just spin up Tik Tokand just scroll Tik Tok and identifywhat is on the for you page of Tik Tok.So let's like maybe start there. Doesthat sound good?>> Yeah, absolutely.>> Let's do that. Open Firefox.Go to Tik Tok.Scroll. I'm gonna say scroll Tik Toklooking [snorts] for what the mostcommon videos are on the for you page.Give me a summary. So, let's see howit's able to do this.So, this is using our our playgroundmodeandboom, opens up Firefox.It's going to go to Tik Tok. And forthose listening, I'm just gonna talkthrough a little bit about what thisagent in our our playground is doing.It's it's visually interacting with thescreen. It's, you know, clicking intoFirefox. It's opening up the browser.Now, it's typing in tik tok.com.It's going there.Andlet's see.This is always such a magical experiencejust watching a computer navigate theweb like a human being.>> It's amazing. You know, this is Yeah,there it goes. Uh it's on it's on theit's on the homepage.And now it's going to it's going toactually scroll TikTok. It's going toprobably take a screenshot of this. Getthe context of based off that screenshotof what the video is about. You couldeven see it. It has hashtags moviehashtag for you page. So, it's going tobe able to infer a lot of things. Boom.It scrolls. It scrolls. It gets a popup.It's going to close out the popup. Um,but on your point, Greg, Dario Amade,the CEO of Anthropic, he just had apodcast with Doresh, and it came out acouple days ago. And you know what'sreally interesting what he said in thatin that um in that podcast? He said>> he said this idea of his around thisdata center full of brilliant um youknow scientists and uh Nobel prizewinners essentially his concept of whatAGI will be like. He says, "Theconstraint to getting there is computeruse agents. The ability to have an AIthat can operate a computer like you andI can, but better. You know, interactwith the visual interface, also be ableto do things under the hood, kind oflike cloud code." Um, this is theconstraint he said. AndI mean, it makes perfect sense. If if itcan do anything that you and I can do ona computer, that seems like it can gopretty far. Um, openclaw is like a chatGBT moment, I think, for for this kindof idea of computer use. And and and asfar as like building these computer useagents out, you can see this is this isclearly working. So, we know this ispossible. Um, you can build a lot ofpeople might get confused with Orgo whenthey come to our site. They seecomputers for agents. They're like, whatdoes that mean? Well, I think they getit now. It's like okay you want yourcloudbot to have its own computer butalso we provide and I'll show this weprovide the doc in our docs like we'reactually provide the programmatic APIsso that you can create custom computeruse agents that um do a given task verywell. So you can bring any model. Youcan get Kimmy 2.5 is like the supercheap um you know Chinese model. It'svery good at computer use and you cangive it the ability to click, drag,scroll, type in the keyboard, spin up acomputer. Um and you could createspecialized really fast, performant,lowcost computer use agents um using ourdocs. And I just say that to say like asfar as you know this this thing thatwe're doing here creating a skill aroundscrolling Tik Tok. Um I think that's howwe can we can actually give it a shot islet's just we see this is working now.Let me just grab the ordocs and let'sstart building this skill out. If youdidn't see here I'm at the Ordo docs. Iclick this thing called llms full.txt.This is like all the instructions forthe LLM to be able to build on top ofOrgo.And what I'm going to do is I'm going towait for I have to probably I'm going towait for this to finish this its taskand then I'll be able to tell it. Um but[snorts] while this goes, Greg, you haveany thoughts? Um, well, just, you know,sort of a thing I was thinking about isit sounds like when whenever you'retrying to,you know, do a new automation, you startby thinking about what is a lightweightskill that I should create. Is thatcorrect?>> Right. Exactly. What's the MVP?>> Yeah. So, you start with like alightweight skill. Um, you test it andthen from there you're probably like,"Okay, here's what went wrong. here iswhat could be better that sort of thing>> right exactly just fine-tuning you knowdebug like I think the design thinkingprocess around all of this is superimportant of like okay if I want tobuild a car maybe the first thing I doisn't to build the frame of the car oryou know to build um you know the wholebody of the car that's not the first thefirst thing I should do if I want tobuild a car. Well, why do I want tobuild a car? Well, I want to build a carto go from point A to point B. Oh, okay.So, really, maybe I should start bybuilding a skateboard.How can we accomplish the task to getthe get the dream out the dream outcome?And um and sometimes that means likestarting with something that'scompletely different than the end state.Um so, this is done here. I think itinterrupted itself. probably a contextthing. But now we can actually what wecan do. This is all live. So we'reyou're seeing this in real time. You[snorts] can literally there's a coupleways to go about this. You can actuallyinstall cloud code into this computerand have it build out uh the automationin here or we can just ask this agent todo it for us. So let's see. Um I want tobuild a computer use agentthat does this exact thing.uh but more programmaticallyusing the Orgo API docsand I paste that here. What do we needto get started and we send that off? Allright, here we go. So, we need an OrgoAPI key. Here's the architecture of whatwe'll build.Okay, this looks good.Um orgo [clears throat] key, anthropickey. It has all the code here.Cool. Um, you're looking at a Tik Tokvideo. Extract the username, videodescription, the category, theappropriate like count. Boom, boom,boom. Okay, cool. So, [snorts] I haveall these things already. And don'tworry, I'm going to delete these keys.So, I'm not worried about leaking oranything. I'm going to copy my Orgo APIkey. I'm going to paste it in there. AndI'm going to sayOrgo API key. I also have my enthropickey. Let me grab that. I'm going topaste that here. Can we build this out?And so now we're going to have our ourplayground mode build out this computeruse agent to be able to go do this thingthat we just tested out. We know itworks. We know we can do it. Let's turnit into something that could be moreprogrammatic, kind of like a skill. Andlet's give it to Claudebot so it alwayshas access to it.>> The dream.>> The dream.It's literally any idea you have, youcan just build it.>> And that's sort of the arbitrageopportunity, right? Especially like inour world, of course, like we're so usedto this now. Uh even though it's onlybeen like two months. Uh but you knowthe opportunity is the vast majority ofpeople on this planet and businesseswould love to have better automation andwould love to,you know, have computer use agentsworking for them aka really goodemployees working for them. Um but theydon't know how. And so I think which iswhich is cool that you're like you'reshowing us like some of the bestpractices on on how to do it.>> Exactly. didn't.>> And I think this is also like I I canimagine, you know, the the wholeaudience of this podcast, we're allpretty techsavvy. We know how to dothings like vibe code and and and youknow, play around with cloud code and beable to do these things and we take itfor granted in terms of what that valueis worth.>> Um,>> as far as like OpenClaw and theopportunity around that, I mean,OpenClaw started going viral on Twitteraround two to three weeks ago. only nowis it starting am I'm starting to seeit's starting to go viral on Tik Tok alittle more mainstream. So umyeah I I just mean you know people arecatching on and a lot of people stillneed help with getting you know up andrunning on this type of stuff and whatyou might think is oh I mean I have abasic understanding of open cloud andcloudbot and cloud code uh and you mightunder underwrite that. a lot of peoplefind that valuable. So, being able tohelp businesses adopt it or just peoplein general, I think it's super goodopportunity. Um,>> yeah, I think my only advice for peoplewould be tof focus like don't be everything toeveryone. Likedon't don't help any every business.help real estate agents, for example, orlike pick a vertical that maybe you havesome unfair advantage for someparticular reason. And that unfairadvantage doesn't necessarily mean youhave 20 years of experience. It mightmean just that you know you want