tobuild something for uh real estateagents cuz your mom was a real uh a realestate agent. So you you know you knowthe customer, right? Um so I thinkthat's that's the way to do to do this.Absolutely. Yeah, it's it's um whateveryou know that's your advantage. And Imean I guess as far as like some maybethis doesn't apply to everyone.Obviously if you're in this industrythen go for it. But like you knowprobably things to avoid things that arehave a lot of like red tape likehealthcare, finance, you know Irecommend maybe start in something.>> Yeah. like you said um you know youcould do even manufacturing or or uhthere's a lot of distributorships outthere who you know they distribute uhmerchandise um just like the the demo Iwas showing earlier of that computer usea agent working um so yeah I I think asfar as you know doing doing what youknow and starting there and then themarket will tell you you know the marketwill pull you into specific verticalsyou'll start seeing ways that as youbuild these spec this is a Great point.As you build out these specificworkflows around these verticals of likelet's say you do, you know, let's sayyou do the manufacturing thing and youdo manufacturing for doors. Um over timeyou're going to have a workflow foralmost like every kind of thing youcould imagine in that industry. And ifyou have the agents all built out, canyou imagine you have a workspace and youinvite uh you know some some new companyinto this workspace that uh for forautomations, for manufacturing, fordoors, like luxury doors and you invitethem and they have all these AIemployees in the workspace in Orgo setup ready to go. You just see them allhere and they're all ready to go. It'slike you feel like you just hired not aperson but a team. Um, I think that'sthat's that's a very near future. Infact, I don't think there's anythingstopping us from having that right now.It's all about just, you know, who'sgoing to go out there and and put in thework to actually do that. And if you do,I think it's I mean, it's it's prettyclear.>> Yeah. I mean, and that's that's why Itruly believe that, you know, agents arethe new SAS, like you know what I mean?So, yes, I agree with the like thevision you painted. I think that, youknow, in the past, you know, we createdsoftware that we would sell to thesebusinesses and then they would havepeople actually,you know, press the buttons, touch theknobs to to make it useful. Now, youdon't you're not going to createsoftware and invite them to thesoftware. You're going to create agentsand you're going to invite them to theagents and then the agents are going todo work that creates value for thesecompanies. So that's the mindset shiftandyou know it's it's only recentlyactually that people have been you knowI think over the last like two weeks Iwould say 2 3 weeks that people havebeen likeon X talking about this um h how agentsare the new SAS but I I do think that umlike over you're going to see over thenext two to three months like somereally big winners um and you're goingto start to see it work. So, I'm excitedfor people listening because I thinkthat um this is the a type of audiencethat will act on some of this stuff andit'll be interesting to see what whathappens.>> Yeah. Yeah. I I I think it was it was itSam Alman that just said, you know,every company is turning into an APIcompany.>> Yeah. And that's interesting becauseinterfaces are in a sense dying in thatway of like you know you won't interactlike the ultimate interface for whateverreason seems to be chat and text messageand it's happened twice now of like okaythe chat GPT moment was a chat box andnow it's the openclaw moment which islike a text message or telegram so it'slike okay chat has happened twice um andthat just means okay so we just want towait for our agent to be able to use allthe tools that we use and we don'treally care about how it does it. Itjust needs to be able to do it and andit runs in in the background um and doesit under the hood. Umso here, okay, I started uh I built youcan see that this agent in theplayground built out the Tik Tokagent.pyinside the computer. So now I askedOpenClaw, hey um I built a Tik Tokagent.py in your desktop. Can you take alook? And it's re it says, "Okay, I'veread it. Here's what I see. Uh there's askeleton for, you know, using Orgo umplus uh Anthropics API."Go ahead, Greg.>> No, you keep going.>> And and it was and it was um you know,all all the actual Tik Tok logic, uhtrend detection, all this stuff. Um it'slike, okay, maybe we should build thatout.>> And it's like, oh, you got the API keyshardcoded, etc., etc. So, let's just sayLet's use this script build on top of itor whatever you need to doand let's spin up a orgo VM inside ofthe Greg Eisenberg workspaceto accomplish this um automation withTik Tok.Let's demo it just working.We can spawnauh sub aent and VM in this workspace.And let me just give it a API key justin case it needs that.What really blows my mind about thiswhole thing is that,you know, I was going to say we we'rewe're building a business in a veryshort amount of time, but it's reallylike we're building an asset. like theamount of assets that people are goingto be be buildingum using tools like this is is going tobe crazy, right?>> It's insane. Honestly, it comes down tolike honestly like it comes down totaste now. Good ideas. Um [laughter]cuz like if you have a good idea, itcould just build it and yeah there'sthere's going to be like oh my goodnesswhat's going to happen with all of theseassets like you said that people arejust going to build and build and build.There's going to be so many assets. Ithink is this what is this what we meanwhen we talk about the um the abundancethat AI will bring you know of solvingall these problems?>> Yeah. Well, I think what ends uphappening is,you know, unfortunately, there are goingto be more and more layoffs as AI helpswith productivity. At the same time, Ithink there's going to be arenaissance, the golden age ofentrepreneurship and people creatingassets, products like this, onepersonbusinesses, anduh that's how I see it playing out.>> Yeah. even even maybe may we don't knowofficially but maybe it's alreadyhappened with Peter Steinberger thecreator of openclaw you know he he justum officially announced he's joiningopen AAI>> like I think it was just him who builtOpen Claw how much did he get you knowaqua hired for I think it was a lot>> um>> so that's that's I mean that's that'scool I think this is the best time to bea builder tinkerer to get creativeUm, I I'm excited to see what peoplebuild with Open Claw and computer useagents in general of likethere's so many things, you know,whether it's a a super fast chesscomputer use agent or if it's somethingthat's genuinely driving an outcome inyour business. Like I just think there'sso many things that can be built. Um,playing around with these tools, gettingfamiliar, learning how to how toleverage them. Yes, AI is going to bereplacing a lot of jobs, but also it'sgoing to enable a lot of people to dothings, you know, that they've neverbeen able to build before, and now theycan do it. So, um,yeah, I'm I'm just Oh, here it is. Okay,so you can see>> it spun up this computer, Tik Tok TrendHunter, and my screen's just refreshing.Uh, let me just click into itand and I could just tab back and fortha little bit to see. Okay, VM is up.It's opening Firefox. Let me wait forthe agent loop to start. Here we go. So,it's spun up its own computer. This isinsane, Greg. It's spun up its owncomputer.OpenClaw did. And now it's it's usingits own Python script that it just madejust now. We took it from idea browser.And now it's going to go do this thing.[laughter]um that we just built out. I don't knowhow long this took. Last like 10 minuteskind of just, you know, in between we'retalking, having our coffee. It's like[laughter]this is insane. I don't know. It kind ofIt makes me It gets me giddy. It's like[laughter and gasps]uh and it's going to figure this out.It's like, you know, it's going to debuglike, okay, what's going on? Why am I onthe ads.tiktock.com? Let me reroutemyself. I'm sure it's going to figureall this out. Uh, but it's just cooking,you know.>> Crazy, dude.Crazy. Anything else you want to coverbefore we head out?Yeah, I think um as far as other thingsto cover, I meanI I just want people to start thinkingabout these tools, you know, yes,they're they're once again they're greatpersonal assistance, but if you startthinking of OpenClaw as an NAN or[clears throat] you start thinking of itas um you know, like a Lindy AI of likeyou know people there are realbusinesses right now like we can go toUpwork right now and find jobs that arebeing posted around, you know, thingslike this. This is what you do. You justgo to Upwork. Upwork's great because youget to see what the market's asking forand you just type in uh robotic processautomation. you know, this old outdatedway of of programmatically automatingtasks that is like clunky and it breaksand it's not intelligent. If the buttonisn't in the exact UI space that youjust delegated it to, it won't work. Andyou go here, look, posted yesterday,Android RPA automation posted yesterday,automation pipeline for client upload.You go here. You could just do let'slet's find $500, $1,000, $5,000. Let'slook at all these projects. Okay, thisone. Boom. Right here. Um $1,000 budget.I'm looking for experienced automationengineer to build desktop automationcomputer use uh for my softwarebusiness. We sell a specialized dynamicPDF. You take all this context, give itto open cloud, give it to Claude code.How much of it can you build out as ademo based off of this context alone?Send a proposal. You have your firstcustomer right here, $1,000.Um, get get some case studies, leveragethat. Maybe go deeper into this industrythat this person's in. Start buildingout specialized workflows using cloudbotopen claw for all the different verticaluse cases in that. Create a workspace ofit. Um, I think that's where we're atright now and I'm excited by this. So,um, yeah, I I guess we'll just see whereit goes. And yeah, okay, this needs alittle debugging as to be expected. Wespent 10 minutes on it, but I think youget the gist. Um, and yeah, I'm excitedto see what everyone builds.>> From your lips to God's ears, baby. II'mI think your approach makes completesense. Um, it's the exact approach Iwould use. Totally recommend it. people,get your hands dirty, get tinkering. I'mexcited for what you build. Um, Nickdoesn't do a lot of podcasts. Um, Ithink I was only able to find him do onelive stream before. So, show him somelove in the comment section. Uh, likethe video. Um, show him some love and,um, Nick, I hope you come back on. Uh,share more use cases. I'm going to besharing more use cases that I'm usingthat my you know I haven't done uh toomany publicly but I'm going to besharing more of my use cases both onvirtual machines and on my own Mac Miniuh for my open claw stuff. So get readyfor that folks. And uh Nick wait isthere anything is there is thereanything else before before we go thatyou want that you want to share? I justwant to share with you, Greg. You don'tknow this, but I've been a longtimefollower.>> This is my YouTube Rewind 2025 top.5%.So, if you're watching this and you loveGreg's podcast, you love his videos, youyou get building on top of it, you putcool stuff out there, you know, you joinyour you join your top YouTube channelon your on your re your rewind of theyear.>> I love it. I love it. Nick, you're alegend. You got to come back on. You'reone of us. You're one of us. So, uh,appreciate I appreciate that. Thank you,Greg. Thank you for having me.