Kind: captions
Language: en
Alrighty. Hi everyone. Thanks so much
for tuning in. Look, I'm super excited
to finally get a chance to chat with
Keanu. Keanu Nie, I'm so sorry. I know I
was gonna get your last name wrong. Uh,
but we've been bantering. We've been
having a chance to chat. And Keanu is a
pentester, ethical hacker, red teamer,
just doing some awesome offensive
security work and the developer of Graph
Spy. So, if you're up for it, Keanu, I'd
love for you to tell me, hey, a little
bit about yourself, what you're up to,
and then we could get into a demo, maybe
showcase a little bit of Graph Spy.
Yeah, I'm a a pentestian indeed. I do
some red team assessments and social
engineering engagements, all kinds of
fun stuff. And in general, I noticed a
couple of years ago that there weren't
that many good tools that you could use
to enumerate Android and Azure kind of
things, Azure stuff with access tokens
because back then device code fishing
was pretty new and I started looking
into that and I was pretty successful
with that. However, after you do device
code fishing, and we'll go into that a
little bit later, you will get access
tokens and no username and password,
then you can send API calls to Microsoft
services. However, yeah, it wasn't that
straightforward that useful to work from
command line tools. So, that's when I
started creating my own tools and after
a while thought, okay, maybe this is
growing into something that other people
can also use. So, I pushed it on GitHub.
>> Sweet. and graph spy. I know you
mentioned to work with that graph API
for like Microsoft Microsoft Azure
Microsoft enter ID and all those but
that opens up a whole wide world of all
the things you could do like read emails
look at teams messages maybe dig through
SharePoint or one drive. I know there is
a ton of opportunity and if you're up
for it do we want to do some screen
share maybe let off some fireworks dive
in?
>> Sure. So yeah, this is Gravy. So on
GitHub you can find it uh fairly easy.
The installation process is fairly
selfexplanatory.
So I'll in there there's some additional
installation page if you want to go over
that. And then there's also a full wiki
that you can use. I try to update it as
much as I can with new features.
However, I still need to work a little
bit on that. But in general, I think it
will be most useful if I just open it up
and go through it. So graspy, you can
use it. I see the features over here or
the the command line options over here.
However, all you basically want to do is
just run it like that and it will open
up. I'm just going to create a new
database over here so we can uh test it
out in a clean environment where none of
the access tokens of my previous clients
will be in of course. So, you just
launch it like that. I'm on a little bit
of a pre-release version with some new
features. So, we might be able to have a
look into that as well. And then you can
just open this in your browser. So if
you launch graspy the first time you
will see there will not be that much in
there. So first thing you want to know
in grass by is that in general
everything will work with access tokens.
You will see at the top you have quite a
lot of options of things that you will
be able to do. So enumeration stuff and
also be able to modify uh some stuff.
However, first you will need to get some
access tokens or refresh tokens. And
there are quite a lot of ways to be able
to obtain these. You can either steal
them from the devices of the user
yourself. If you have compromised them
or if there is malware running on there,
you can get them over there. However,
one of the most powerful options uh that
Craft Spy supports is doing device code
authentication. So with device code
authentication you can basically trick
users into signing in with a code that
you create as an attacker in tools for
example like Resp. You send them that
code. This code is valid for like 15
minutes only. But if the user fills in
that code on any of the URLs that you
see over here a legitimate Microsoft
login URL that they might trust. They
fill that over there and then sign in to
their account or they already signed in.
then you will see that um graspy will be
able to instantly obtain these access
and refresh tokens. So what we're going
to do is first generate a normal uh
access tok normal device code right you
can select the resource this is
basically the API that you will be uh
able to send requests to after that the
user is authenticated. So in general
quite all of the the functionality in
graphy use the Microsoft Grab API. They
are also supported as well. But we'll
select that one. We can change that
later on. And uh then we can select a
client ID. This one uh is a little bit
more important because it will define
what the user will see on their screen.
So it is important to match that to the
preix that you want to use. So for
example, if we want to send the user a
fake Microsoft Teams invitation, for
example, with email, you want them to
sign into Microsoft Teams, you might
want to select the client ID for
Microsoft Teams. You don't need to know
them by hand. Jasper has these already
in there. So you can select it and then
you can click generate device code. You
will see instantly it will obtain a
device code from Microsoft. You'll see
it will also automatically start
polling. Every five seconds this will
update and it will check that the user
already authenticates or not. So right
now it is still pulling. Uh so it will
be blue but once the user authenticates
you will see that this will turn to
green. So let's do that really quickly
within demo accounts. You can send any
of these URLs over here. They all
redirect to the same URL. You can copy
and paste that. I will select the
shortest one. And this is the one that
you would basically send to your attack
or your victim user. So I will select
one of these URLs over here and then uh
this is basically what would happen.
Obviously first you send this to your
victim user. You will just play as a
victim user ourself over here so that
you can see the flow. So we enter over
here and you see this is a legitimate
Microsoft login page. Right? So this is
a legitimate website from Microsoft. It
has some warning messages over here.
this didn't used to be there but then
Microsoft decided that it would be a
good idea to put them over there because
obviously this has been abused by the
threats as well. So it does say over
here do not enter codes from sources you
don't trust. Obviously during our
assessments that we do where we need to
do social engineering we need to
convince the user with the pretext that
we are the source that they do trust.
And even with this warning message over
there, we still see that users fill in
this code for from us. Let's do that
really quickly. I'll fill in the code
over there. Press next. Then you'll see
there is already uh a lot of sign in
sessions that I'm already signed into.
Usually in a corporate environment, the
user will already also be signed in to
their corporate device, of course. So
what the user would then do is just
click on their account. Um yeah, this is
a test user. don't mind the name but if
I click on that it will say are you
trying to sign into Microsoft Teams
right remember our pretext would
probably convince user that they are
trying to sign into Microsoft Teams
maybe you sent them a fake Microsoft
Teams invite right with a Microsoft
Teams code that they would need to use
so they will probably say yeah I'm I'm
trying to sign into Microsoft Teams
right and they click continue over there
you'll see the tech is actually already
done and the moment you will see that
the device code will update over here
has done that and now if I scroll a bit
to the right you will see that it has
successfully authenticated over there
actually can close this window right now
so that we go back to class pipe so
right now the user is already
compromised actually even though we
don't even have their username password
so what can we do after that well you
will see that we have obtained an access
token over here it's green so it's still
valid usually valid for about an hour
and then some minutes and it says over
here let's create to buy the device
code. We can now use that access token
to do all kinds of fun stuff in class by
with the other features, right? So,
first we would need to activate that
one. Then you will see uh the active
access token is over here. And if I open
the sidebar over there, it will show us
the current active access token with all
of the scopes that we have. If you want
to dive maybe a little bit deeper into
this access token, this is our ra access
token. It's a JSON web token. You can
decode that with several tools but
crespy also already does that for you.
And then you can see everything that is
in this access token already. So you
have uh some information in here. Not
all of it is going to be very useful for
us but things that you will see that are
in there. The IP address of where you
generated the device codes will be in
there. This is used for location based
condition access policies for example.
So this is how Microsoft knows where you
are authenticating from. Then what else
is there? the username of the user that
we just compromised their email address
is in there and then most importantly
the application ID so over here and it's
this way name we set that to Microsoft
teams right and then the audience is the
APIs that we now are able to send
requests to and this one also very
important the scope which this defines
what we as now are able to do with this
access token right so you can see all
kinds of fun information in there such
as real send chat message send we have
probably somewhere files do read write
all so we can now read files we can see
sites on shareepoint so all of this we
will now be able to do let's see if we
can maybe find something by activate
that access token quite a lot of modules
we can use for example let's start with
one drive just open that and normally
what you would need to have to do is
these access tokens you can't sadly just
insert them into an active browser
session and then go to actually one
drive. So all you can do is send API
calls with this but that's fairly
annoying to do directory listing and to
go to all all of the files in in one
drive for example. So graspy is
basically a a user interface a web
application that allows you to just
browse one drive for example like you
are used to and it will handle all of
the API calls in the background with
access token for authentication. So we
can see the one drive of the user. If we
for example open want to open a folder,
we can do that. Important info. This one
seems important. Cupcake recypes. We can
download that for example and then see
what is in there as you can see over
here. So not too important in this
specific case. We could if we want
upload some files. In a lot of cases we
see like a desktop for example share to
one drive. You could for example wow
hijack a shortcut document that is on
there and maybe change their Google
Chrome shortcut to a malicious one that
will execute PowerShell for example. So
then you could spread mobile to their
device or do something like that.
>> That's a very wild like identity to
endpoint attack vector in my opinion
like that's that's crazy cool.
[laughter]
>> There are at least some uh some nice
techniques that you can do if you think
a little bit out of the box. So, I'm
just going to go over a couple of the
features and then you just stop me
whenever uh you think something is
relevant. Of course, recent files. So,
the the files that were recently
accessed by the specific user. So, we
can already see some interesting ones of
course over there that we might be able
to download if you wanted to. We can see
where it is hosted in um the SharePoint
site it seems from sales and marketing.
So, we could download that one. They can
look at what is in there. see quite a
lot of credentials that we might be able
to uh use. So yeah, this from there it
comes your standard enumeration process
of course files shared with this user.
So if someone shared a custom image with
a specific user so that's also there and
then for example in sharepoints we
should be able to list all the
shareepoint sites this user has access
to because we have the sites read write
all permission over there. So we will be
able to list that and then we can just
click through them sales and marketing
click on documents for example and click
through some for secrets and here we
find the same um document that we saw
previously right
>> nice
>> so there used to be a way where you
would be able to open the outlook actual
outlook application from just an access
token sadly I've noticed that this
doesn't really work that often anymore
so this was an an old module that's
still in there sometimes it works as It
doesn't. I think Microsoft changed
something over there that prevented this
from being possible. So then I created
the new Outlook graph module which uses
just basically created the complete
Outlook interface and grasp by myself
and it uses the Microsoft Graph API in
the background. As you can see over
here, it instantly already lists all the
folders I have access to. I can for
example reload that over here and then
we can see the emails that we have
currently only one. We can select that,
read that. Uh it seems like und
deliverable notice. We can reply to the
email, have everything we want in there
with images. We can add attachments sent
to BCCS and so forth. It's fairly
detailed. You need emails as well. Do
some custom search queries. I've also
you can use custom ones or use the ones
that are pre-built into crespy for
example to search for password reset
notices for example. But let's clear
that and maybe look at the send items in
loads. And here we can see some emails
as well. So once again some secrets
being shared your standard stuff.
Obviously this is demo environments. I I
added some things that we see quite a
lot during our assessments. Uh so we'll
find quite a bit of credential but yeah
this is actual stuff that we do see
during real assessments as well. Uh
quite a lot. And if we did have the mail
read shared scope and we had some
permissions over shar shared mailbooks,
you would also be able to to access the
shared mailbox over there. I think
currently I do not have that scope
either uh set but this is a little bit
technical but that is where the scopes
and the clients gets a little bit funny.
I've added a note over here. But since
this access token is obtained through a
Microsoft Teams access client ID, it
will have all the scopes of the
Microsoft Grab API that the Microsoft
Teams application would normally have.
And this one mailshar is not one of
them. Even though mail sent is one, mail
read is one of them, but the shared
mailboxes isn't. What we would need to
do then is change our client application
to Outlook mobile because I know that
this one does have the mail3.shared. So
this is where something that I haven't
really shown yet comes into practice.
The the refresh tokens uh become
important. We didn't only receive an
access token when we did the device code
fishing. We also received a refresh
token which is even more important
because if you look this access token
original one is only valid for 1 hour.
So this expires, we can't use it
anymore. However, the refresh token that
we got, this one stays valid for quite a
bit longer. In fact, it stays valid for
about uh 90 days. So quite a long time.
And you can use this one to obtain new
access tokens for restricted uh scopes.
This becomes a little bit too technical.
I don't know how technical you want to
go, but there are specific limitations
on which client ids and resource
combinations you can use. If you see
it's a fy token, a family of client ID
token, then that means that we can do a
little bit of magic and we can use this
refresh token if I activate it. And not
only over here it's activated now. Can
not only use this one to obtain an
access token for the Microsoft Teams
client ID which will give me all the
scopes I'm used to uh from previously.
But I can also change this client ID to
for example Microsoft Office. Usually
this shouldn't be possible due to the
forward and open ID connect
specification which say that you should
only be able to refresh access tokens
for the same client ID right of your
refresh token. But Microsoft is
deviating a little bit from that and
implemented something they call family
of client IDs this fi and every client
ID in this family can be used to obtain
access tokens of different client IDs in
the same family. And you will see that
the scope differs a little bit from the
previous one. For example, if I now
select the outlook mobile one, submit
that one. I activate that one. I can see
the scope over here the side. And you
see a little bit of different approaches
that we have including mail.shared to
create um shared mailboxes, right? I
think this user doesn't even have access
to a shared mailbox, but in caseh you
would point that that's how you would be
able to obtain that. So yeah, that's
basically some basic information of what
you can do. We can go a little bit
further maybe uh in some more complex
topics or some more fun topics. I might
say for example notification methods,
right? We now know that we can use a
refresh token to obtain different types
of access tokens for different APIs.
Sadly for the Microsoft graph API, I'm
not really able to like add multifactor
authentication methods and things like
that. For that you would need to go to
my account.microsoft.com and it uses
like a different API and you can
actually obtain that in grass by as well
because I've like reverse engineered how
that signins API works and I've
implemented it in grass by so you can
use that and the application that we can
use is also a family of client ID
applications for example and Microsoft
Azure CLI or Azure PowerShell. Let's use
one of these. Let's submit that. You'll
see this has now a different resource.
So now it's it's not a URL in this case.
Sometimes it's a URL like here.
Sometimes it's an application ID. All
that's important to over is that this
application ID corresponds to the one
that Microsoft would use to set
multiffac authentication methods for
example. Right? So once we activate this
one, I can go to MFA methods. And if I
load over here, we can see all of the
multif authentication methods that are
configured for this account. So we can
see authenticator app. There's two of
those configured. can see them over
here. Gives a little bit of basic
information for that. We don't have any
photo keys added yet. Also, one mobile
phone. I would be able to see that as
well, but then you would need to blur
that because that's my phone. But the
very nice thing that you are able to do
over here is add new authentication
methods of course, right? So, you can
either add one for your Microsoft
authenticator for example. You can click
on add. It will say it's failed over
here. And I probably know why that is.
And that's because our access token
doesn't have a specific claim that it
needs. So here it has MFA claims meaning
that the access token was obtained using
multiffactor authentication. Um but
there is a special kind of claim that
you need to actually modify
multification methods then your MFA
claim may not be older than like a
couple of minutes and it has it's called
a next gen MFA claim and we can obtain
that if we would have fished the user
directly with this specific box set then
we would have obtained that. So we can
do that uh really quickly so that you
would be able to see that. So, um I'm
going to take this one. Then I'm going
to take uh this one for example.
Actually, let's do it like this. This
one is what I need. I click generate
device codes. And now, if the user would
sign in with this one, I'll do that
really quickly. And then you will see
that it will prompt me for
authentication instantly. But we're
still on the legitimate login page of
Microsoft. So, that's fine. So, I'm
quickly going to do that. 59. All right.
All right. So, I've signed in over here.
If I go back the right page, we'll see
this update very soon. There we go. We
got a refresh token and an access token.
I'm going to activate this refresh token
and the access token over here. I'm just
going to refresh it once again for good
measure because it needs to be in a
specific format. So, my signins
Microsoft Azure. So, we have the token
over here. And now you will see in our
token has this NGC MFA claim, right? And
you'll also see this token is only valid
for like 15 minutes because it's fairly
powerful what you can do with that and
I'll show you that right now. What I can
do right now is go to MFA methods reload
that and now I should be able to add new
spectification methods to the account of
the user. So you can see over here Q
code I can now scan that add that and I
have a new MFA method.
>> That is wild. [laughter]
I did not know about that NGC MFA like
the nextG MFA clamp. That's cool.
>> Yeah, it's something also fairly
documented documented I think. Uh
because yeah, normal users should not
use this API of course,
>> right?
>> I'm not going to add this one. What I'm
going to do instead maybe is add a F2
security key. I also implemented that. I
have a UB key right here. So I'm going
to put that in test key John over there.
Add security key. It will open this
Windows browser or or window that you
can use. You just need to enter the pin
codes for your UB key of course. There
we go. Then I need to touch it
physically and you can see the status
over there. It has now added this key to
my account. So I can now go back reload
this and I should see there is one
registered right here. You can see over
here it's there. So now this previous
access token was only valid for 15
minutes, right? because it had the
special claim in there. Now I can
basically sign into the account of the
user anytime I want using their username
and uh without you knowing their
username and password and because it's a
security key secure right it will have
not factor authentication claims as
well. So now I would just be able to
sign into the account or the user I can
actually do that really quickly if you
want. So now I should be able to sign in
over there to the account. I don't have
the password, but I should be able to
sign in with the security key. Yes, it
detects that one. We enter the pin code
of my security key, touch it, and we are
signed in. [laughter]
>> That is awesome.
>> Just captured their account on your own
little physical token. [laughter]
>> Yeah, indeed. And it's very powerful
because now even if the user resets
their password or changes their
parameters or their phone or whatever,
you still have this uh security key,
right? So regarding persistence, this is
like very powerful and now we can even
obviously use all applications that we
want with the GUI. We wouldn't even need
class anymore. We can just open Outlook
over Teams or whatever we want, right?
So it's a little bit of an upgrade from
an access token to a full and persistent
um user session. Now there will
obviously be logs like there'll be
records in the uh I don't know purview
or whatever century how I don't know
what Microsoft might call specifically
those for the Azure enter ID logs right
>> yes of course indeed there will be be
logs that a user has added the fo key
which obviously that by itself is not
malicious because users can can add that
of course however during incident
response if users doesn't notice like
some suspicious behavior on their
accounts or you are a little bit too
eager with the enumeration and grab
quite a lot of files at once, then it
might trigger an alert. Your blue team
might start investigating that and they
will indeed hopefully find out that you
added the feeder to security key.
>> Super cool.
>> There are a couple more features I can
show you. So, I'm going to close out
this window and go back to where we
were. So, I've showed you this one.
Grass by can also act as like an MFA
method itself. So, you can add that
directly from here as well. And then it
will will be able to generate like MV
codes directly from grass by. But yeah,
video keys are even more interesting. So
let's stick with that one. Microsoft
Teams, I haven't showed you that one.
For that, there is a graph API for
Microsoft Teams. However, that one you
need specific scopes that you cannot
really get as a regular user. Like even
if I select like Microsoft Grav API and
I select the Microsoft Teams client ID
if I obtain an access token for that you
will see in the scopes there is not
something like chat read all or
something similar chat read right and
this is what you need to be able to read
and send chat messages over the
Microsoft Gra API. So even though you
can the Microsoft teams client ID can
authenticate to this Microsoft drive API
for some reason it can send mail and it
can read your meals but it cannot read
chat messages. So what you do need then
is what I implemented over here is the
Skype API. So this is the Microsoft
Teams API but it still uses the the
Skype endpoint for some reason. So you
can obtain that with the same client ID.
We have user impersonation right. So
once you activate this one, you will be
able to go to Microsoft Teams and use
this over here to see all the Teams
messages of the user and go over them.
So you would be able to send chat
messages over there. Yeah. See
everything you want. There's like some
documents over there from SharePoint. We
would also be able to get right. So even
over there we can get that because we're
[laughter]
so yeah.
>> Oh, sorry. I'm laughing at all the Bob
the Builder memes.
Oh yeah, this was from some kind of um I
did some CTF some time ago and I used
this and this is all chpt generated but
nice. [laughter] So you have this you
can send messages uh you can send images
if you want read documents and so forth.
So all kind of powerful can even list
all other users that that are in the
organization and send them some emails
as some teams messages as well. So we
could add them add some message to that
and then it will create a new group for
them. So we can do that over there. So
over here we send now a new team's
message. So also fairly useful as a red
team because what we usually want to do
is do some privilege escalation after we
compromise a low privilege user. So a
good way is always like finding out or
figuring out uh with the IT guys are and
sending them some messages saying that
you have some issues and then you invite
them in a Microsoft Teams call for
example which is like the device fishing
all over again. So then we get access to
their account and then it's game over
fairly soon.
>> Wow.
>> So these are some of the new features
I've been working on from enter ID. So
these are not all implemented in the
public version just yet. It's in my
private people or for the a limited
group of people that have access to
that. If you want they can give you
access later on if you want to play with
that a little bit. Right now this is
public. So what you can do is is the
enter ID users. So let me just you have
some options over here to which specific
properties you want to query load that
and then you get a list of all the users
in the organization that you can see
okay which persons have group
memberships uh and IDA roles and so
forth. are synced to onrem or not. Could
be useful to compromise them to to move
to onrem for example. We can see some
details of the user. Open them. See all
of their properties, their phone number,
when their password was changed, all the
groups they are a member of. This one
should also resolve. But I think let me
try that again. But this specific access
token there's a specific scope in here
and otherwise it will not be able to
obtain the the directory roles. But now
it should be able. Okay. And now
Microsoft is troubling me with that's
just I know which one is going to work
though. So here we should be able to
also see the that this user has a global
admin for example which devices it owns.
So you can see some information from
there. I'll show you some fun stuff for
in devices in a little bit because you
can do quite a lot of powerful stuff
with that app assignments API
permissions and so forth are all visible
over here. Right. And we have basically
a little bit of the same flow with a
groups, right? So we can enumerate all
the group memberships or all the groups
in the organization. Then we can see how
many members are part of that. And then
we can once again open that, scroll down
a little bit, see the transitive members
of that one, see the owners of that
group. All of these you can open up and
see like some JSON information with some
more details. uh you have that basically
everywhere that if you want some more
debug information or some more metadata
of the specific entity as a security
group. So there there is one dynamic one
for example also something very useful
for us as pentesters to look into
because these have like membership rules
and sometimes you can make your own user
a member of that specific group by uh
changing some properties like your own
department. I don't think you can change
that. There are some kind of properties
that you can change on your own profile
as a regular user that would result in
you becoming part of that specific
group. So that's also always interesting
to look into. And then the one that I've
been working on today just now. So this
is like couple hours old this
functionality the entic
API. It's not going to work with the C
access token because with the Microsoft
Grav API you need specific permissions
to be able to enumerate directory roles.
So you you can enumerate like global
admins that are active global admins but
you cannot enumerate eligible group
memberships as a low privilege user. You
can do that with high privilege user but
what I noticed is if you use like the
undocumented API that Azure portal uses
you can use that in that as a low
privilege user. So what I did is I
implemented that instead. But we know
you can also obtain that using client ID
a fry client ID. So uh with the same
access token that we've been using
previously, we can now request this new
access token. So this is the Microsoft
BIM one. Activate that. So we're there.
And now we should be able to enumerate
the wall assignments. So we see all the
active rule assignments, how long they
are valid for for the eligible ones as
well. and so forth, right? Whether they
are permanent or not. So now we can
really start targeting some some high
privilege users that we want to, right?
Some authentication administrators, some
global admins and things like that. So
very very useful information
>> that is super cool.
>> One last thing I want to show you and
this one is also like very powerful and
it's on the same level of powerful as
the Fed 2 update that we saw there. you
had the device code to VTO to the where
we would be able to with the UB key now
get a full session as a user there's one
other method of doing that for example
if V2 keys are not enabled or you want
to use something else and that works
with registering devices and it's fairly
complex but I've simplified it quite a
lot in crashy so you have device
certificates over here you can either
import them from other devices as well
that are compromised primary refresh
tokens that you can also import and with
those hello keys. And so all of these
work quite nicely together. Right now we
don't have any of these. Let's say we
just start from scratch and we want to
fish our user all over again. So what we
can do is obtain an access token for the
specific resource. This one enter ID
device join then this one Microsoft
authentication broker. This specific
access token if we obtain that we will
be able to register a new device. obtain
a primary refresh token for that device
and then also register Windows Hello for
that allowing us to have full access
over the account with a newly joined
device. Even if we don't have the
password of the user, we would now also
have persistent access to the user
session. It will all become clear in a
little bit. You could do this manually,
but since you only have like 15 minutes
to register the device and register
Windows Hello for that, it maybe if the
user signs in at an inconvenient time
when you're not at your computer, I have
automated this. So, you can select this
one for example, Windows Hello auto
action in device codes section, it will
set all the settings, right? And then
you will see some additional options
become there. So, I'm just going to add
JH device over here. Can make it either
enter ID joint or registered doesn't
really matter. In a lot of cases, I see
organizations restricting the ability to
join devices to enter an id but not to
register them. So I usually would set
this to registered because this is what
organizations use to for example
register mobile phones of the user to
their organization for specific
purposes. Right? So usually this is left
open and we can set the device type.
It's basically metadata. It can be
anything. You can just customize it.
Microsoft will not validate it but it's
just how it will show up in the logs.
You can even make like custom operating
systems like John OS. It doesn't really
matter. It will just show up like that
in the device blocks. So we will
generate that device code. You will see
the art action is ready. And now the
user will need to sign into that. So
let's do that again. Let's go to this
one. Microsoft.com/device.
Also side notes what I like to do is
like during uh social engineering
assessments where I can use visioning.
and just call them tell them I'm from
the help desk they need to register
their device or whatever just say okay
you need to go to this legitimate
Microsoft website microsoft.com/device
code or device login right and they say
okay microsoft.com seems legitimate
right they see the Microsoft logo over
here you talk them through it enter this
code it's only nine characters so they
enter that and you just say okay you
don't need to provide me your
credentials right just select your
account and sign in as normally
obviously don't share your password over
the phone that's not So secure you talk
them through it and then usually they
will sign in for you.
>> That is awesome. [laughter]
>> So a little bit tips and tricks over
there.
>> Social engineering. Yep.
>> So let's sign in where you're trying to
sign into Microsoft authentication
broker. So this is a little bit of a
tell but obviously in the pretext that I
told right now you can say that this is
Microsoft right? So you can say this is
for registering your device. So it's
very safe. Usually if you call a couple
of employees they they you will find one
that will do that. So we will continue
over here and then the tech is done. But
if you wait a couple more seconds you
can see now action is in process. So I
don't even need to be at my computer
while doing this. The attack is already
finished. We just like usually we have
the refresh token. We have the access
token. Right. However you will see we
have a little bit of extra. We have now
a device certificate. So there's now a
new device registered in NF ID with that
specific user as we would be able to
copy the certificates and the private
key of that device which are usually in
the certificate store of the device and
uh this one is protected by the TPM. So
it's pretty hard to get those out of
there but we now created a new one
that's trusted by the organization and
now you think okay what can we do with
that? Well, once you have a device
certificate and key, you can actually
obtain primary refresh tokens. You see
there are some primary refresh tokens
already created over here. And these are
basically refresh tokens that are more
powerful than your regular ones because
they are linked to a specific device to
a device identity. What does that give
us? Well, these primary fetch tokens are
so powerful that you can sign in, but
you can use them to obtain access tokens
for any client ID and any resource. And
previously, we're restricted to only
like the family of client IDs if we
fished a user for a specific client ID
that was in the family of client IDs. We
would be able to now refresh those to a
specific access token in the same
family. Now, we don't need that anymore.
We can obtain access to refresh tokens
for any clients, but even more, we can
generate primary refresh token cookies.
And this is basically how your devices
do a single sign on. You've probably
already noticed when you have a company
device and you sign in with your pin
coins or whatever one time on your
Windows login screen. After that, you
usually don't really need to
authenticate that much anymore because
you're already signed in and it will say
signed in in Windows, right? Well, what
it will basically be doing in the
background is using these device
credentials to obtain the primary
refresh token and use these primary
refresh tokens to obtain these cookies.
So, I'm going to show you what that will
look like. You can copy that over here.
These cookies are valid for about 5
minutes, but are very very powerful.
Let's see. I'll open a new incognito
window. Go to microsoft.com and just
follow the instructions. Let's do it
like this. Oh, my cookie is gone. Let's
get a new one. So, all we need to do is
we are now at microsoft.com. I'm going
to go to the cookies tab. Clear all of
them and just import this one. And this
is like a completely empty window.
There's no one signed in over here yet.
So, by now going to my account.com.
You'll see I'm just magically signed in.
No credentials needed whatsoever. No
username, no password, nothing, right?
No multifactor authentication. However,
this session even has multiffactor
authentication claims, right? because it
the device was generated with melt
spectra authentication map. So very very
powerful feature that you can use as
well.
>> And with the primary refresh token you
could just swing from any app or any
service right like because that doesn't
need any specific client ID. You could
just use any of them. That's wild.
>> Yeah indeed. And yeah once again once
you have this you don't need like for
anything else anymore than just
generating the cookies because you can
just sign into any application that you
want. They can now go to Azure for
example and we will also just be signed
in. These cookies I'll just spell it for
like 5 minutes but you can generate them
how much you want and once you sign into
an application you will get like cookies
session cookies for Azure portal
specifically. And now yeah this session
lasts for a couple of hours. uh probably
if you sign into something like a
shareepoint for example you will see
that these sessions will stay valid for
like multiple hours even days with just
one cookie right and you can do this
indefinitely right the last thing that
uh it generated is the Windows Hello key
right this also already got generated
and basically what this allows us to do
is the device that we now generated is
now also enrolled with Windows Hello for
business the feature that allows you to
just enter your pin codes when you boot
your device and suddenly you're
magically signed into your account.
Well, what happens is your device will
actually have a Windows Hello key and it
will use that to obtain new primary
refresh tokens. And once you have this
key and as long as this device stays
valid and they it's not removed from the
Azure portal, you are now able to obtain
new primary refresh tokens or as much as
you want, for as long as you want. As so
you can see over here, new primary
refresh token generated from that
because these primary refresh tokens are
valid for 14 days by default. So you can
see it over here. But even if these
expires, as long as I have the keys, I
don't need the username and the
password. I don't need not
authentication and just keep generating
this for as long as I So then we can do
the same trick with the cookies as I
showed previously.
>> Conor, that is insane. [laughter]
>> That is too cool. And graphy makes it
too easy. Goodness gracious.
Yeah. Yeah. It's sadly some some
malicious actors are also using it. So
from that perspective, it's just
important to get these tools out there
in the hands of good red teamers and
pentesters so that they can use them
during their assessments and show how
easy it is for attackers to actually
also use these because if I don't make
these tools, they will just make them
themselves. Of course.
>> Agreed. Yeah, I think still the
education, the awareness, like that's
what's important. Like I know whatever
research Yeah. falls into the wrong
hands, but you still need to know to
begin with because otherwise they'll do
it all before before the good guys do.
>> Exactly.
>> Well, hey, this is awesome, my friend.
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for
showing me the ropes. How can folks
follow along? I know you shared the
GitHub just previously. If anyone was
looking out for Yeah. those new
releases, those new updates that I know
you were cooking up and then anything
else that anyone else might maybe
contribute, help, sponsor. Yeah, they
can obviously come over here to the
grass by GitHub, get the latest version
over here. I do have like set up a
little of a sponsor page as well. We
have seven right now. And if you do
sponsor over there, you can see that you
will get access to um a pre-release
version as well. It's like just a
private version where I give a little
bit uh of the the latest version a
little bit earlier to the new people
while I'm still developing the features
that support me. So, I probably messed
up that [laughter]
perfect.
>> All right.
>> Yeah, maybe follow me on Twitter or on
LinkedIn or whatever. I do usually make
some post. I don't make too much post,
but if I make a new version of Cass, for
example, I will mention it over there as
well.
>> Excellent. Well, I'll include all those
links in the video description for folks
to be able to tune in and and track you
down. But, uh, thank you. Thank you.
Thank you, man. I can't say it enough.
This is so cool. And I had no idea how
much further it can go cuz I think I was
following along for like oh maybe the
first 10 maybe 15 minutes like I've done
device code fishing and then I could go
play with the account but I had not done
any of the nextG MFA or even the token
swapping that you were doing between
refresh tokens and so awesome awesome
stuff. Thank you so much. [laughter]
>> No problem. Thank you for inviting
