Imagine having a personal hacker that you can WhatsApp 24/7 and it instantly does what you ask. For example, the other day I was in a coffee shop and I wanted to find CCTV cameras around me. All I had to do is simply pick up my phone and message my personal AI hacker. Couple of seconds later, I got a list of cameras that I can view directly within my phone. This is Zate from Zecurity and in this video I'm going to show you how to set this up step by step using OpenClaw and Kali Linux. So this is going to be a juicy video. If you want to jump to a specific part, just use this timestamps below. But before we jump in, if you want us to make more videos like this, please help us grow by simply liking the video and sharing it with friends and on social media. And if you're interested in ethical hacking and cyber security in general, then make sure you subscribe and hit the bell so you get notified every time we publish new videos like this. Now, chances are you've already heard about Open Claw because people can't stop talking about it. And for a reason, it's a really useful framework that you can install on a computer and then you'll be able to get AI to control that computer. And the best part is you can communicate with it using any messaging app using WhatsApp, Telegram or whatever you like. Let me explain. Traditionally, we're used to chat to AI agents. So, we ask it a question, it goes ahead, uses its knowledge or uses search and answers our question. But what if we connect this AI model or brain to a computer? it'll have access to the applications installed on this computer such as the terminal and the web browser. In this case, instead of simply asking the AI a question, wait for the answer, and then take the actions ourselves, we can give the AI a task. The AI is going to use its knowledge to come up with the answer or the steps to achieve the goal. and then it's going to deploy agents to use the computer to use the terminal or the browser or any other tools to achieve the goal that we asked it. Now, in order to link AI to agents to a computer, we need a framework. And previously in the hacking master class, I covered several types of frameworks, but what we're going to cover today is Open Claw. So, we're going to be installing OpenClaw on the computer that we want to give it the ability to use. And instead of installing it on a normal computer like what most people do because they want to use it for normal use since we are hackers, we're going to install it on a Kali Linux machine. Therefore, it's not only going to have access to a terminal and a web browser. It's actually going to have access to all of the other tools that Kali has access to, such as NMAP, Metasloit, the Harvester, and the list goes on. You can simply ask it to go ahead and scan the network or generate back doors for you or perform OSEN tasks or anything else that you might want. And I'm going to show you how to do that later on once we install it. Now, you can install it, like I said, on any computer, whether it's personal or on the cloud. But I'm going to choose to install it on the cloud because it's going to be always on. I'll always be able to use it whenever I want. It's going to be more secure because it's isolated from my computer. So this framework is not going to have access to my own personal data, photos, documents, and so on. Now, you can follow the steps that I'm going to show you with any cloud provider. You can even follow them to install it on your own computer locally. But I'm going to choose to go with Hostinger because I can start a Kali machine instantly and because their pricing is very reasonable and guaranteed. So you can actually do this for free with Amazon. But as you can see, the free server only gives you 2 GB of memory, which is very low to run Kali and Open Claw and use them properly without running out of memory. You can install it on a YUbuntu machine, but then the price will significantly increase because you will be charged on the usage. So you'll be paying about $60 a month or so depending on your usage. However, if we go with Hostinger/Zecurity, you'll see that you can start from $5 per month, and that's going to get you double the amount of memory that you would get with the free Amazon tier. But I'm actually going to go for the second one, the KVM2, because I'm going to get 8 GB of memory. It's only going to cost me $7 a month, and it's going to be enough to run Cali with OpenClaw with the tools that I want to use without running out of memory. So, it really depends on your usage in here. Minimum KVM one. I'm going to go with the two. And if you're going to use it heavily, then you might want to go with the four or the eight in here. So, we're going to choose this plan, and I'll show you how to get a further 10% discount on top of this. So, right here, you can change the period. Obviously, you'll get the highest discount if you keep it on the 24 months. I'm going to change it to the 12 months. And then, we're going to click on have a coupon. Put Z security. and you will see that we're going to get a further 10% discount. Now that we're happy, we're going to scroll down and select the operating system that we want to run. And one of the reasons I'm choosing Hostinger is the fact that I can simply click on Kali Linux to launch a Kali Linux machine on the cloud. As you can see, as easy as this with simply a few clicks. Click continue and it's going to take you to the checkout page. If you're not signed in, it's going to ask you to either sign in or sign up. I'm already signed up. I'm simply going to click continue. It's going to take me to the payment. And once the payment is done, you will be redirected to the final stage where you have to set up a password for the root account. Just make sure you choose a strong password. And we're also going to set up an SSH key because that is more secure. All we have to do is click select key, click add new SSH key, and it's going to give you the command that you need to run in your command prompt or terminal. So, you want to copy this, and if you're on Linux or MacOSS, all you have to do is look for terminal. If you're running on Windows, open up the command prompt and paste the command that we just copied, hit enter, and it's going to ask you to choose a name for the key file. You can call it anything you want. I like to use meaningful names. So, I'm going to choose Cali open claw. Hit enter. And it's going to ask you to set up a passphrase or a password for this key. You can leave it empty for no passphrase. I'm actually going to set up one. And you're going to have to repeat it. And as you can see, we have two files now. The first one is our private key. You should never share this with anybody. We're going to use this to authenticate with our cloud server. And the second one is the public key. So we [snorts] need to install this on the cloud server so that it can identify us. We're simply going to use the cat command followed by the file name which is kali openclaw.pop for public. Hit enter. And you have the contents in here. And we're simply going to copy the content. Rightclick and copy. And we're going to go back to hostinger. Paste the public key so that it goes ahead and automatically installs it for us. And it can call it anything in here. Again, we're gonna call it Kali opening claw. We're gonna save and finish. And now it's creating our Kali machine on the cloud and installing the public key on it. So then we can control that machine from this computer remotely with my private key that is only stored on this machine, which makes it a lot more secure. And while you're waiting, this is a great time to go ahead and smash that like button and share the videos with friends and on your social media, guys. That really helps us grow and helps push this video more, which would motivate us to make more videos like this. And perfect. As you can see, it's telling us that we are ready. Our machine is ready to be used. You can log into it with SSH using this command, but we're going to use a different command because we want to log in with our key, like I said. And you can simply click on managevps in here in order to manage this machine on the cloud. But we're going to go ahead and manage it and use it using the terminal and simply run the same command that I'm going to run now in order to log in. SSH, which is the application that we're going to use to control our computer on the cloud remotely from this current computer. And we're going to use the -ash i option to specify the key that we created in the previous step. And if you remember, I called the key cali_openclaw. And remember, I'm not doing pub because I am using the private key. This is the key that I'm supposed to keep a secret, keep it installed on this computer. And finally, we have to specify the username that we want to log in as. And I want to login as root because that's the user with the highest privileges. And it's at the IP of the Cali machine that I just created. If we hit enter, you'll see that it's asking us if we want to trust this. We're going to say yes. It's going to ask us for the passphrase that we set up when we created the machine. Type it in here. You're not going to see the characters. That's just a security feature so that nobody can see the password you're typing. And if you hit enter, as you can see, I am logged in to my Cali machine on my server on the cloud that exists on Hostinger. Congrats. Now you have your own Cali machine with all of its tools installed on the cloud. So, it's going to be always on. it's going to be always available and you can go ahead and use it without worrying about port forwarding and your services and fishing pages and all of that are going to be accessible from anywhere in the world. So now we can go ahead and install openclaw. But first before we do that, let's disable password login on SSH. This way, nobody would be able to control this computer on the cloud without the private key that we only have locally stored on our own computer. And we can do that by simply modifying one setting in one file. So, we're going to use the nano command, which is a terminalbased text editor to modify a file. And the file exists in etc. SSH ssh config. d50cloudinit.com and you'll see we're simply modifying one option which is very self-explanatory as you can see this option allows password authentication and we want to simply set it to no so that nobody can log to this computer even if they know the password so that the only way to log in is using the key just like what we did now to save this we're going to do ctrl x and it's going to tell us do we want to save the modification Press Y and hit enter. And that is saved. But the changes will not take effect until we restart the service. We're going to use the service command to restart the service. That is called SSH. And we want to restart it. Hit enter. And that's the service restarted. So if I exit and I'm back at my MacBook Pro computer. And if I try to log in without the key. So, if I remove the I argument and hit enter, you'll see that I'll get a permission denied. Which means that if there are hackers or bots out there trying to guess the password or even if they know the password, they will never be able to log in. The only way to log in is using this key in here, which will always be stored locally on my computer. Now, this is just a security enhancement. It's optional. You don't have to do it, but I highly recommend it. So now let's log back in and put in the key and put in the passphrase and we're back inside the Cali machine. I'm simply going to clear the screen and the next step now that we have the Cali machine installed and configured nicely to go ahead and install open claw the agentic AI framework on it so that we can go ahead and control this Cali machine and we'll be able to simply communicate with it through the chat or even through WhatsApp and any other application. Now, installing OpenClaw is actually really, really easy. If we go ahead to their website and scroll down, you'll see that you can install it with a single command. Usually, this is all you need and it installs all of the needed software, but since the latest update, this is actually broken. Therefore, we're going to go to their GitHub repository in here, and we're simply going to scroll down and use the recommended installation method. And as you can see, this is the first command that we're going to need to run, which uses the npm package manager to add the open claw repo first. So, we're going to go to our terminal, paste the command, hit enter, and as you can see, because we don't have the npm package manager already installed, it's asking us if we want to install it. So, all you have to do is type y, hit enter, and it's going to go ahead and install the package manager for you. Hit enter to confirm that you want to go ahead with it. And perfect. Now that the package manager is installed, we can go ahead and run the first command that was suggested to us, which is to add the open claw repo. We're going to hit enter. And again, you want to give this a second. And perfect. Now that this has completed with no errors, only warnings, we can clear the screen. And we can go ahead and get this second command to actually go