ahead and install the gateway, the Damon, and everything else that we need. So, we're simply going to copy it, come back to our terminal, and paste. Hit enter. And perfect. Right now, what you see is the onboarding wizard. So, this is where you're going to set up all of your settings. So, the first thing that it is telling us that this is powerful and risky, obviously, because this agent is going to have control over this whole computer. So, you have to say yes to this, and we're going to say yes. And then it's asking us to choose the onboarding mode. You can go with quick start if you want to go ahead and configure it later, or you can go manual, which is what we're going to do now because we want to set up everything right now. Next, it's going to ask you about the gateway. So, you can have it available remotely, but to make it more secure, we're going to keep it local only. Next, it's asking us for the workspace directory. We're going to keep it to the default. this workspace right here. And next, it's asking us for the model provider. So, [snorts] we are at the stage that we have OpenClaw installed and we need to link this guy to a brain. So, it can think because this is a framework that can go ahead and deploy agents to use the operating system, but it doesn't have a brain and it's only as smart as the brain that we link it to. And as you can see, you can basically link it to any AI model that you can think of. You can even run it with local AI models. And I'll be covering that in the hacking master class in the next classes. So, make sure you join if you are interested in that. But in this class, we're going to go ahead and link it to a frontier AI model. So, you can choose anything that you want. If you prefer OpenAI, Antropic, or whatever you prefer. I'm actually going to go ahead and use Open Router as a provider because the nice thing about Open Router, if you don't know it, it gives us access to hundreds of models. As you can see, as of today, there is 627 AI models in here. And they basically have all of the models from all of the companies. They have the Google models, the Chat GPTs, anything you can think of. And you'll be able to access all of these using one API key or one authentication method. All you have to do is simply sign up with these guys. I'm already signed up. Signing up is obviously very easy. You just click register, go in here, click on keys and you want to create an API key. This is how the framework is going to authenticate with the account in here. Click on create key and then give the key a name. I like to use meaningful names. So I'm going to call it open claw so I can track how much I'm going to spend through this. I'm going to click create to create it. And I'm going to copy the API key and paste it in here. Hit enter. And now it's going to ask us to use the AI model that we want to use. As you can see, we have access to hundreds of AI models. So you can scroll down and look for the free AI models. For example, we have this AI model which is completely free and it will not charge you anything. Or you can go for a paid AI model or you can select auto which will let open router choose the best AI model based on the question or the task that you send it. But I really don't recommend using free AI models with this framework because we actually needed to be kind of smart enough to be able to use these tools. This guy is only as good as the brain that you link it to. If you link it to a dumb brain, it's going to be dumb. And if you link it to a smart brain, it's going to be pretty smart. And a lot of these free models have aggressive rate limiting. Therefore, if you can afford it, the best option is to go with the Oppus Claude. It is the smartest AI model when it comes to agentic workflows like what we're going to do. But if you want to save a bit of money, you can go with the Google Gemini 3 Pro. Or if you want to save even more money, you can go with the Chemi 2.5. And you can actually see the difference in pricing in here. So you'll see the Chemi 2.5 is basically almost free. it is very very cheap per million token whereas the Google is a lot more expensive than that and then if you go to the anthropic it is the most expensive so like I said you have the option you can use the free deepseek as I showed you earlier or you can choose any of these options that's the nice thing about open router it gives you access to so many AI models and if you're going to choose to use one of the paid AI models then you will have to put in some credits in your account so all you have to do is go in here, click on credits, click add credits, and then select the amount that you want to add. As you can see, I already have credits in here. But if you choose to go with the free AI models, then you will not need to add any credits. You can use it for free. I'm going to choose Claude 4.6 Opus because that is, in my opinion, the best model out there when it comes to agentic workflows. Next, we're going to select the port for the gateway. This is not really important because we're not going to be accessing the gateway through the web interface, but I still like to change it to something that is not the default. So, we're going to set it to 1515. Hit enter. And we're going to keep the gateway bind to the loop back so that it is not accessible from anywhere except the local machine. That's fine because we're going to control it through our messaging apps from our phone or through the terminal. Next, it's asking us about the gateway authentication. You can use a password or a token. Token is more secure, so we're going to keep it with token. And then it's going to ask us if we want to use tail scale. So, I'm going to keep this off because we're not going to be using the web interface anyway. And we're only going to be using this machine for hacking. We're installing Cali on it and Cali runs on root. But if you want me to show you how to set this up for maximum security, then let me know in the comments and I'll make a full video on that. So, I'm going to keep this as off. And next, it's asking us for the gateway token. We're going to keep it blank. So, it automatically generates it. And now, we are at the stage where we need to configure the channels. And this is one of the really cool features that everybody was raging about because you'll be able to use any app, for example, Telegram, WhatsApp, Discord, or any other app to message it like a friend, and it's going to go ahead and execute the tasks that you give it. If I was going to set this for maximum security, I would use either Matrix or Signal, but Signal requires a SIM card and Matrix requires a good bit of manual work. WhatsApp is also really cool, but you need a SIM card for that. Otherwise, it'll use your own WhatsApp account, which I highly don't recommend. And that's why we're going to go with Telegram because it actually uses a Telegram bot. We're going to click yes. We want to configure the channels. and we're gonna hit enter again to configure the Telegram channel. And it's going to give you the steps that you need to do on your Telegram app to link it to OpenClaw. So, I have Telegram in here on my phone. It's telling us to look for the bot father. Click on the plus in here on the top and look for bot father. This one right here. Click start. And you want to run forward slash newbot to create a new bot. Hit send and it's going to ask you what do you want to call this new bot. I'm going to call it Neo because it's going to be a hacker. And next it's asking us for a username for this bot. Now this username needs to be unique. So I'm going to say Neo one and it needs to end with bot. So we're going to do underscorebot. And I'm pretty sure this would be taken. So I'm just going to add some numbers to the end. And perfect. It's telling us that the bot has been set up and it's giving us the token right here which we will need to give to Clawbot in here to be able to communicate with us through Telegram. Hit enter and perfect. As you can see, it's telling us that Telegram is configured now. So now you can go ahead and set up other channels if you want to be able to also communicate with it through WhatsApp or my message signal and the list goes on as you can see. But if you're finished, you can simply go to the finished and hit enter. Next, it's asking us to configure the DM access policies. This is very important because right now we created a bot that exists on the internet that anybody can message. I don't like that. I'm going to say I want to configure it right now. I'm going to say yes. And I'm going to set that to an allow list. This way, the bot will ignore everybody that messages it, and it'll only respond to my own messages. And now, it's going to ask for the username or the user ID that it should only communicate with. So, we're going to need to go back to Telegram. And this time, we're going to need to speak to a different bot. So, I'm going to click on the new message in here, and we want to look for user info bot right here. Click start and perfect. As you can see, it's giving us the ID right here. And all you have to do is simply again copy that and input it in here. Hit enter. And perfect. Now, Clawbot is only going to respond to our Telegram account. Next, it's going to ask us if we want to install Skills, and we're going to talk about that in a second. So, for now, I'm going to say no. And finally, we want to enable all of the hooks in here. So, you want to highlight it and press space to select it as you can see in here. And once you're happy, you want to hit enter to go to the final stage. We're going to keep the gateway service to the default node. We're going to hit enter. It's going to go ahead and try to start the gateway. And perfect. Right now, OpenClaw is finally installed on our Kali machine. So you can speak to it through the terminal UI or through the web UI. Now, we're always going to be using the terminal UI. We disabled the web UI because first of all, we're hackers and we use the terminal. And the terminal is actually more efficient and more secure. And there is nothing that you can do in the web UI that you cannot do in the terminal. And finally, once we configure it anyway, we're going to be mainly communicating with it through Telegram, not through the terminal or anything else. So, we're going to hit enter to hatch it in the terminal. [snorts] And as you can see, it automatically sends a message to it saying, "Wake up, my friend." So, this is literally the first word you're speaking to your AI assistant. As you can see, we are getting a response back saying, "Hey, I just came online, fresh out of the box, obviously, no memories, no name, nothing." So, you can think of it as a very smart baby. It does still doesn't have a name and it doesn't have any skills. So this stage is going to be very very important as we're going to teach it how to assist us what we want it to do and we're going to give it skills so that it can efficiently assist us. Take time in writing this first prompt that you're going to send it. Open claw is known for having a really good memory management. So it's going to remember what you say and it's going to keep it in mind for future tasks. So first of all I'm saying hello to it. I want to be polite and I want to be nice to it. It's going to be my nice hacker assistant. I'm giving it my hacker name Zuz and I'm giving it its hacker name Neo. And I'm increasing its confidence by telling it that you're the best hacker that has ever existed in the world. And it's very important to tell it the kind of infrastructure that it has access to. So we're telling it that you have access to a Kali machine in the cloud. This is very important. So it's going to know that it has access to all of the Cali machine tools and that it is on the cloud and therefore it can be reachable from anywhere in the internet if we ask it to deploy a server a fishing page and so on. Now this is very important before I explain to it how I wanted to handle my requests. I'm going to ask it to install some essential skills from clawhub. So remember there was a step in the onboarding where we were asked do we want to install any skills and I said skip it. I will explain it to you later. And as you can see, it's saying what kind of skills I want to install. Now, you can make it create its own skills or you can go to the skill hub in here and search for skills that's interesting to you. So, the first skill that I want to install is a web browsing skill that will allow it to bypass captur cloudflare and bot detection because the built-in browser constantly gets blocked and flagged as a bot. So, if we look for browser skills, you'll see that we have a number of skills that allow the agent to efficiently use the internet. Now, the one that I've been using and I kind of like is this one right here, stealth browser. Now, there might be better ones later on, but this one I've used and the nice thing about this is that it can bypass Cloudflare, Captas, and so