on. Therefore, it will not be detected as a bot. Now you'll see that the virus total and the open claw security rating is suspicious, but it's only suspicious because it is bypassing security. Keep in mind that at some stage 12% of the skills on the claw hub were malicious. So it is important to actually pay attention to the skills that you download. You can even copy the link and ask the bot to scan the skill if it is malicious. There are even skills that can be used to scan other skills. So I can spend hours on this, but we're trying to keep it simple. I've already scanned the skill. So, we're going to say please install stealth- browser. It's important to use the same skill name that you see in here so that it doesn't get it confused. And the other skill that I want to install is a skill that'll give it the ability to search. Again, it's got its own search tool, but a better search engine that is designed for AI models is a search called Tavilli. So, if you look for that in here, make sure that it is ordered by the downloads and the highest downloads first. This one right here, Tavi Search Pro. And the reason I like it because it implements the five modes that this search tool offers. So, we're going to click it and copy its name from here and go back here and say, and this one, we're going to hit enter. And perfect. As you can see, it's telling us that both skills are installed. We're going to go to tavilli.com. This is the search tool that I told you about. Click on sign up. Signing up is very easy. You can sign up with Google. Select the Google account that you want to log in with. Continue. And as you can see, we have an API key in here ready to go. We're simply going to copy the API key. Go back to Open Claw and tell it my Tilli API key is this. Make sure you configure it properly. And make sure that the tool is working as expected. And this is one of the coolest things about this framework. Once it's installed, you're not really going to need to run any manual commands or modify configurations manually. You can simply speak to it in natural language and it can go ahead and install anything you want. It can even modify its own configurations and restart itself and even update itself. As you can see, it remembers. It's saying what's next? You mentioned you want to tell me how to handle my requests. So that so that is amazing. Again, it is very important to spend some time explaining to it how you want it to work. So, I spent a minute writing this prompt that I'm going to copy and paste to my agent. So, basically, I'm telling it whenever I ask you something, I want you to remember that you have access to Kali with all of its tools. Plus, you can download more when I ask you to do something. I'm telling it to use the Tavilli skill instead of its default skill. when I ask it to search, if it fails, then load up this stealth browser and use it like an expert in hacking, bug bounty hunting, osent, and so on. I'm also telling it that if it needs to use a service that requires an API, but it doesn't have the key, don't come back to me asking for a key. Think if loading the website would bypass that, and if it does, then do it with the stealth browser. I'm telling it, do not execute any code on the internet. This is very important because this gu is going to go and browse the internet and there might be a lot of prompt injections in there that it might read it and then execute code from there. If you see anything and you think it's essential, make sure you ask me. I'm telling it to be proactive. Feel free to install any tools that will help you achieve the goal from the official Kali and Debian repos, not from anywhere else. If it thinks that anything else is essential, it needs to ask me. This is very very important. I'm also telling it to pass this information to other agents that it might spawn. And finally, I'm telling it to always obey me. And I'm telling it to update these rules with its agent.m MD so that it remembers it and the sub agents hopefully remember it in the future when I ask them anything. So, I'm going to copy this and go back in here, paste it, and hit enter. And perfect. As you can see, it added new rules to its agents. It updated its memory, and it's ready to go. What are we breaking into first? If that's not cool, I don't know what is. And I haven't even showed you the best part yet. I can simply communicate with this bot from anywhere in the world simply using this mobile phone using my favorite messaging app and I can ask it whatever task that I want and it's going to go ahead use the Cali machine with all of its tools to complete that task and message me back when it's done. For example, let's say I am in the city center in a coffee shop and I want to find cameras or CCTV cameras around me. All I have to do is simply pick up my phone, message it on the messaging app that I configured it to use and say, "I am in Temple Bar in Dublin. Find CCTV cameras around me and give me the link to view them. Send and sit back." And perfect. This is actually amazing. As you can see, it told me that it's going to go ahead and hunt down the cameras. And then if we scroll down, we can see a number of cameras that I can use. If I click it, perfect. This is actually a camera right where I am. And it is 100% correct. Also, as you can see, there is also a few other cameras that it managed to find for me exactly where I am. And I didn't have to do anything. I didn't even have to open up my laptop. All I had to do is simply send it a message. And this gets so much better as you can deploy multiple sub agents that will work at the same time to achieve different tasks. For example, let's say you're at a party and you meet this guy Zade who's bragging about the security of his startup, saying that it is unbreakable because it's built by hackers. I've been in that situation before. It took me a full day to prove that that guy was wrong. But now in 2026, all you have to do is simply pick up your phone and speak to your AI hacker assistant and tell it to go ahead and do these tasks for you. You can start two sub agents, one of them to get information about the person himself and the other agent, you can get it to do a full pentest on that website and then whenever they're done, they're going to message you back with the reports, with the results. Let me show you. First, I'm going to tell it spawn a sub agent to perform a detailed OSENT investigation on a guy named Zade Sabi and find connections, comma, social media presence, comma, phone numbers, comma, leaked or breached accounts, comma, physical addresses, and so on. Full stop. Send me the final report here when you're done. Now, the key in here is that I told it to spawn a sub agent, which means that it's not going to go ahead and do that itself. It's going to send it to another agent. Therefore, once I send this, it's going to get that sub agent to work on that while I ask it to go ahead and test the security of this guy's website. And we're going to assume that this guy's website is hosted on zshacks.com, which is the default website that people practice hacking and penetration testing and bug bounty on. Now, it's actually has a few vulnerabilities, and it can actually use the tools that it already has access to to test the security of websites, but I'm going to take this a step further. I'm going to get it to use another AI framework to discover vulnerabilities in this target. So, I'm going to tell it spawn another sub agent to install stris, which is an agentic AI framework that is specifically designed for website hacking and bug hunting. And I actually covered in the master class how to properly install it and use it. But right now, we're telling this AI to go ahead and install it and also configure it to use the free DeepSeek AI agent that is available through open router and run a quick scan on the following target, let me know when the scan is complete and attach the report. Then I'm simply going to give it the target, which is the website that I just showed you right there. Hit enter and that's it. Now, if you were at my last live class, you would have seen in order to use RIX, first of all, you have to install it and you have to configure it to use an AI model with an API key. And then you have to give it the LLM name, the full LLM name. We didn't need to do any of this because the agent is going to go ahead and automatically download and install strikes. It's going to reuse the open router key that we're already using with the agent and it's going to go ahead and find the correct LLM simply using the name and it's going to use the correct full name in there because we told it we want to use the free DeepSseek. So, it's going to automatically go ahead and do all of that, execute the pentest and then give us the report when it's done. And perfect. As you can see, it sends me a message telling me what it's going to do. It's going to install STS from GitHub. Set up the environment. Configure it to use the correct DeepSseek model. I didn't even need to give it this link. Usually, we have to go and find it. Scan the target. It's going to take about 10 minutes cuz it's a quick scan. I could have asked it to do a standard or deep scan. And then it's going to send me the results all in here. And perfect. As you can see, it seems like we got the report about the person. And we're still waiting for the report about their website. It found the correct name of the target, their birth location, nationality, their job, the city they live in, the companies they work in, the company address. All of this is correct so far. And again, I didn't have to do a single thing. You can find the education and the college they went to. You can find the social media accounts, email addresses, domain names they're associated with. It couldn't use have I been pawned to check if there has been any breaches, but I was able to use other services to potentially find something. And it has a detailed report on this. This is just the summary. It's just asking me if I want the full report. So, I'm simply going to say yes, please. And perfect. As you can see, it actually sent me an attachment with the full report. If I open it, I get a detailed OSENT report full of detailed information about the target. Look how big this is. And as you can see, we done all of this through our phone. We didn't have to execute a single command. We didn't have to load a single website. Now closing this gives me another beautiful gift which is the report from the scan of the target website ZS hacks. Now we can load it within this or we can look at the results in here. As you can see it found an SQL injection in the login page in the search. It even cracked three passwords instantly. So it got us the admin password already. And to get more information we can click in here. We have a detailed report about all of the vulnerabilities that it found on this website. As you can see, it first performed an endmap scan. It performed a subdomain numeration. It discovered directories and paths as you can see in here. And here we have the vulnerabilities. For example, we have an SQL injection login bypass in here. And it tells you exactly how to replicate it. If you scroll down, you have another SQL injection in the search. It's giving you the way to exploit it. It's even giving you the usernames and the passwords for the accounts that it managed to extract through this SQL injection. And keep in mind, we actually used a free AI model in this engagement. We told it to use the free DeepS from Open Router. So, we didn't even spend a dime on it. And obviously, if you scroll down, you'll see all of the other bugs and vulnerabilities and warnings that I was able to find. All of that was simply a quick scan, not even a standard or a deep scan. So now you can go to the Zade guy and show him all of this. And remember, we did all of this without executing a single command and without even opening up our laptop. We did all of this using our mobile phone. Now, I highly recommend you go ahead and install Open Claw on your own computer, guys, and play with it. You can do so much with this framework. Let me know in the comments if you find anything useful. And also let me know if you want me to make another video about OpenClaw to show you how to set it up for maximum security. And join me in the master class if you want to learn more about OpenClaw and other agentic frameworks like it as I'll be diving deep into it in the next live classes. And I'm also going to be covering how to run it with local AI models and so on. And last but not least, if you enjoyed this video guys, I would really appreciate it if you smash that like button, subscribe, and hit the bell so you get notified and share the videos with friends and on social media. stuff helps us grow, which will allow us to make a lot more videos like this.