This presentation is delivered by the Stanford Center for Professional Development. All righty. So, with that said, I want to do just a tiny little bit of wrap up on what we talked about. memory and this whole notion of pointers last time and go into our next great topic. All righty. So, time for our next great topic. Well, we need to do a little bit of pointers first. So, the first example is something that we talked about very briefly last time, but I want to make sure everyone's sort of on board with this. So, if I have our friend the point that we talked about last time, which is just a class that stores two values, an x and a y that we pass into the constructor. When we do something like this, I'll draw it sort of over on this board. And I'm going to draw it in a actually I'll draw it over here and I'll draw it in a way that we don't need to worry about all the memory addresses and overhead and all that stuff cuz that sometimes makes the diagrams a little bit ugly. And so I'll show you the very simple stylized version of keeping track of the stack and the heap. So over here is the heap. Over here is the stack. And what we're going to do is say hey when we declare point P1 before we have done this new what we get is P1 which is basically just some box on the stack. What does it hold right now? Well, until we do this line, it holds nothing. It holds nothing that we know about. Okay, when we call this new, it says, "Hey, heap, get me some new memory for a point." So, the heap kind of goes over here and goes boink, here's some memory for a point. And it calls the constructor and says, "Hey, constructor, put in the values one." So, somewhere on the heap, we have the values one and one for our little private x and our private Y somewhere on the heap. And the value that new gives back that we assign to P1 is the address of this thing. Remember, we don't really care about where in memory this thing's actually stored. And so sometimes what we like to do is just keep track of addresses by pointer. So we know that this is just some memory address over here where this particular object's actually stored on the heap. Okay. So now if we do point P2, actually let me not let put the semicolon on yet. If we do point P2, what we get is on the stack, we get some new space set aside for P2 and again its beginning value is unknown. Now we have a couple options. One thing we could do is say new point and give it some XY location in which case we'll get a new point on the heap and P2 will point to that new point. We could do something funky like say hey P2 equals P1. Well, all that's happening there is saying take the value that's in P1, which is a pointer over to this location on the heap, and set P2 equal to that. So, if this happens to be a memory location, you know, A ae, this guy gets a AAE, which means in our sort of stylistic representation, it's pointing to the same place. Okay, are we sort of on board with that? If you're on board with that, nod your head. Excellente. All right. So now if we do p2.move and we tell it to move by an amount like three, four, it says, "Oh, well in order to call the move method, I need to call the move method using the object P2. Where does the object P2 live?" It looks it up through the pointer and says, "Here, this is where you live. Call the move method with this particular object." So it passes to this pointer to this location in memory. And it says move 3 4. And as you saw with move last time, all move does is add those values to the respective x and y. So px becomes 4, py becomes 5, and now that move method's done. And interestingly enough, what I've done is change not only p2, but also p1 because they're pointing to the same place in memory. They're the same actual point. And that's the important thing to keep in mind. If I set an object equal to another object like this, they are the same actual object. There's only one of those objects that lives somewhere. and I really have two things that are pointing or what we like to refer to as referring to that object. So oftent times we refer to these things as references. Okay. Now what happens if I come along and say point P3? I get P3 over here on the stack. Right? And again I'll write the P3 over here so as not to interfere with the lines. And I'll draw this line a little bit around P3. So it kind of goes like that. Says, "Oh, P3. Yeah, I don't want to interfere with you. I'm just going to zigzag around." P3. What value does it start with? I don't know. It's not pointing to an object yet because it hasn't been initialized to point to an object. Hasn't been initialized to point to a new object. And so if I come along and say, "Hey, you know what? P3, I just want to move you, you know, move to 4, 5 cuz that's where I hear the parties at. That's where P1 and P2 are. Can you move yourself to four comma 5?" What happens when I do this? Bad times. That's what happens. What I get? Well, first of all, I get a social because a whole bunch of people said it. But what I get is this thing. Who knows where it's pointing? As a matter of fact, this pointer could often times be something we refer to as a null, which means it's not pointing to any particular object. In which case, when I try to do this, I get what's called a null dreference. Anyone happen to see something called a null d reference while you're working on breakout? Few folks. Yeah. This is what you were getting. You had some object here that wasn't actually pointing anywhere and you were trying to call a method on it. says, "Hey, I'm trying to call the move method on P3." And P3 says, "I I got nothing for you, man. I I got nothing here." You're trying to move something that doesn't exist. So, you're trying to dreference, which means go through the reference. Just a funky name for go through. We say dreference. Um something that doesn't exist. Or maybe this is just, you know, has some random value that's pointing off somewhere into memory that you don't know about, which isn't actually an object. Okay? So that's what you want to watch out for is this is real bad times if you actually happen to call a method on some object which doesn't really exist. Okay. Now the other thing that's important about seeing these little pointers is the fact that remember when we talked about parameter passing and in the days of Y we talked about parameter passing and we said this little thing where we said hey you know what if you have something like an integer or a double or a car or a boolean. These are what we refer to as primitive types. They're like hanging around. They're, you know, lower on the evolutionary ladder. They're just what we refer to as the primitive types. When you pass primitive types as parameters, what you are getting is a copy of the value of the primitive type. Okay, what does that mean? It means when I call some function and I say, hey function, I'm going to pass to you a three. Like in my move method over here, I pass in a three, which is an integer. What actually happens when I make this method call is I pass a copy of the three. And so if in this move method I tried to change this value around to something else, all I'm doing is changing the copy. I'm not changing the actual parameter that was passed in. So if this wasn't a value, let's say I actually had some variables here like X and Y. And up here I had int x and y. When I make this method call, I get copies of whatever values are in the boxes for x and y. And so if move tries to muck with x and y, all it's changing is the copy. It's not changing the X and Y out here, right? That's what we talked about a long time ago when we talked about little Marron who went off to France with his mom and the Mona Lisa and he wanted to take a hacksaw to the Mona Lisa, but the Mona Lisa, he just got a copy cuz they went to the gift shop. Yeah, primitive types, you go to the gift shop. Now, something funky happens though when you're dealing with objects. Okay, so when you're dealing with objects, they are not primitive types, they are objects. And so when you make a method call where you pass some object along, what you are actually doing is you are passing the object or actually what we refer to is the object reference. What does that actually mean? What that means is let's say I call were to call some method over here where I actually pass in a point. So let's say there's some method over here like oh uh move well I'll call it change zero which is supposed to set a point to be zero and I pass it P1 and this is just some method that I wrote and maybe the the elements of a point are actually public let's say as opposed to private. So this function can actually access those things. What happens when I pass P1? Well, what happens when I pass P1 to this change zero method or this change zero function is I'm passing where P1 lives. So the parameter I actually pass is the address that's in here. So if the address that's in here is let's say the value, you know, A 0 0. I passes my parameter a 0 0 which means what I have is a reference because I have that pointer to where P1 really lives in memory. Which means if this method decides that it's going to muck around with P1 and tell, hey P1, move yourself to some other location, the values that it's going to change when it makes method calls on the parameter that's passed in is at this place in memory because it knows where this place in memory is, right? You want to think about when you're passing objects, this is, as we talked about it before, sort of like the mafia. When you pass around objects, you're talking to the mafia. And when you talk to the mafia, they know where you live. Okay? They can come in and mess with you however they want. They're not getting a copy of you. It's not like you go to the mafia and you're like, "Oh, I'm gonna send my cologne along to the copy and you know, or my clone along to the mafia and they'll just talk with them." No. When you're gonna go talk to like the godfather or the godmother, you're not sending in your clone. You're going in yourself, right? And you're like, "Hey, you know, Godfather and he's like, "Oh, you come here on the day of my daughter's wedding? Anyone? That's Anyone seen the movie The Godfather? It's It's so good. If you haven't seen it, go see it." Um, but we won't talk about that right now. But what we will talk about is the fact that if they know where you live, any changes you make are not to a copy. And that's a critical idea to know. This is what we refer to up here as pass by value because what you're getting is just a copy of the value. You're not getting the reference. This is what we actually refer to as passing by object reference. So I'll just change the 'the' here to a by, which means when you pass objects around, you're passing a reference to the object. You know where the object lives. Here's a little way you can think about it. So remember our story about little Maron who goes to see the Mona Lisa. Think about it this way. When little Marron went to see the Mona Lisa again. Here is the Mona Lisa smiling. Here's little Maron bow-legged Maron ponytail chainsaw. When he wants to actually if the Mona Lisa were just some integer, right? He's going to go to the gift shop and he's going to get copies. But the Mona Lisa is actually something that's really valuable. So what do we do with the Mona Lisa? It's encapsulated in this big safe that's an object. And so when we want to say send the Mona Lisa over to like the MoMA in New York, not that they would actually display it at the MoMA, but let's say we send it to the MoMA in New York, we're sending the actual Mona Lisa. We're not sending a copy of the Mona Lisa. We're sending the actual thing. So then in the MoMA in New York, Marilyn comes along and says, "Hey, you know what? Security is much more lax here. I'm just going to chop this thing up." So it takes the chainsaw to the Mona Lisa and chops it up. And that's the real Mona Lisa. So when we're done with it being displayed at the MoMA and it goes back to our friend the Louver in Paris. So here it is in Perry. Yeah. It's still sliced in half. Bad times. Major international incident. Okay. Don't let this happen to you. If you're going to mess with an object that's passed around to know that you're changing the actual object. Okay. So one thing you might say about this is you said hey Maron you were saying talking about Mona Lisa encapsulating that in an object. So if I have some integer and I actually wanted to change it could I create an object around an integer and then pass the object and allow someone else to change the integer inside that object. Would that work? Yeah. In fact that would interested in doing that. There's an example that does exactly that on page 235 of the book just because it's important to memorize every single page of the book. But it's there. Okay. I just had to check. Yeah, it's 235. So, just something you should know. So, any questions about that? All righty. So, last but not least, one other thing I should mention since we're on the subject of saying, "Hey, why not take one of these primitive types and encapsulate it inside a class?" It turns out Java actually has a bunch of classes already built in which are encapsulations of these data. So for an int there is something called integer with a capital I in the full word which is actually a class that is a class that stores a single integer. The only unfortunate thing about this class is you would say hey now I can create integers and I can pass around an integer and change the integer. Right? This class doesn't actually give you any methods to change the value. So it doesn't get you the effect you want. We'll use them later on in the quarter for something different. But just so you know these exist there's a double and then there's the class version which is actually uppercase double. So Java is case-sensitive and if you ever put uppercase double you would actually have been using the class version of it. Similarly with boolean there's boolean and there's uppercase boolean. And then with car it's a little bit different. We have car over here and here it's the full word character is the class. So these are sort of the class equivalents. These are the primitive equivalents for everything we're doing so far. Unless you get told to use the class equivalent just use the primitive equivalent and life will be good. This is just kind of an artifact of programming languages. Sometimes in life things just happen to happen this way and you get two versions of something um just because that's the way life is. Okay. But these class versions remember like strings we said strings were immutable. You can't actually change the string in place. All you can do is create a new one. These classes are all also immutable. Once you create an integer and give it some initial value you can't change that initial value. If you want to say, hey, I want to take that value and add one, you need to create a new object of type integer which has the old value plus one added to it and you get a new object. So they're immutable in the same way strings are immutable. You create new ones. You can't change the value once you've gotten a initial value. So any questions about this or any questions about this whole notion of pointers and references and passing the stuff around as parameters? Because if not, it's time for our next great topic. And our next great topic is something that really is a great topic in computer science because it's something you've been doing this whole time. And now it's time to lift up the covers and say, "Hey, you know what? There are some much more dangerous things you can do than you've been doing right now." So before we sort of gave you the safety scissors where you know that has like the rounded corners and they're like rubber. Remember safety scissors? They were fun. I like safety scissors. Now basically we take the safety scissors, we take them to the mill, we sharpen them up real sharp. We have you hold them up and run with them. Okay, so here's where things get dangerous. Files. You're going to learn how to read and create files as well, which means the opportunity to erase files or write over them, which is why things get dangerous. But it's really not that dangerous as long as you're careful, right? When you're running with scissors, just point them down and things will be Why people ran with scissors just made no sense to me. But like, I really need to go cut this piece of paper. Come on, we're all going. It's the like paper cutting marathon. All right. So, files. What is a file? You've used files the whole time, right? When you created some program like you had my program. Java that was just stored in some file somewhere and you when you write a paper, you know, in your favorite Microsoft your favorite Microsoft your favorite word processor, which may or may not be a Microsoft product, you're creating a file. Okay? And in Java, you should be able to create files and read files as well. So, that's something we're going to do. And the first thing we're going to think about is reading files. Now, the files we're going to think about reading are not necessarily Java files. We're actually going to think about just plain text files. And often times you'll see these things as, you know, it'll have some name followed by a dot followed by txt, which is kind of the extension that means text. But that's what we're going to deal with is just files that contain a bunch of characters without any of the characters being like special meaning characters or anything like that. So, the way we think about a file, let me just draw a file up here cuz life is cheap. As a matter of fact, I'll show you a little file on the computer. Wake up. Don't worry, it'll come back. It'll just take a moment. Wake up, little guy. Yeah, it's it's time for your starving roll. Here's a file. Just want to say a students rock the house. There can be no doubt about doubt about it. Doubt it. There's I put two doubts in there. I don't know why I just did. All right. They're It's one of those little things like springtime in the Paris. Remember that little