puzzle? No. All right. Let's not worry about it. When something is the beginning and ending of a line, the human brain is just likely to convolve it and think there's only one there. Random psychology lesson for the day. Thank you. Let's move on. Here's a little file. It's a text file. It just contains a bunch of lines of characters. The way we like to think about files is that we're going to process a file one line at a time. And we read files sequentially, which means we tell the computer, hey, here's the file that I want to start reading. It says, okay, I'm ready to read the file. And it starts at the very beginning of that file. And then I will ask the computer line by line, give me the next line of the file. And it'll give it to you as a string. And you can do whatever you want with that string. And then when you go to read the next line of the file, you'll get the next line. So first you'll get CS 106A students. The next time you ask for a line, you'll get rock the house. Then there'll be there can be no doubt. Then you'll get doubt it. Then you'll get some indication that you've reached the end of the file. Okay. So what does that look like? All right. And how do you actually do this? So you're going to be doing this for oh assignment number four hangman. So it's a good thing to know. So first thing you want to do is what's referred to as opening the file. Opening the file basically means you're going to associate some object. You're going to create some object which is actually something we refer to as a buffered reader. And you'll see an example of that in just a second. You're going to have some object that essentially corresponds to some actual file on your disc. So when you open a file, what you're doing is saying, I'm going to have some object I'm going to create and when I refer to that object, I'm actually going to tell you that it's referring to some particular file that's on my disc right now. So that's opening the file. It's creating this correspondence. Then the second thing you do is you basically read the file. And this there's multiple ways of reading the file, but we're going to focus on reading a file line by line until we've read as much of the file as we want. Usually the whole file. And then the third thing you need to do is because you open the file, you need to close the file, which basically cuts this correspondence between the object and the file. It says, "Okay, I'm done with that file now. This object is no longer referring to that file. This object's kind of I'm going to be done with it." Okay. So, in order to use some of this functionality, I'll show you the code in just a second. There's a particular package you need to import called java.io, which stands for input output. star. So at the top of your program, you'll have an import, then it has Java dot just the letters io.star semicolon. Okay? And that'll give you all sort of the file stuff. So how do we actually do one of these things where we're we're going to open a file. We're going to read its contents and we're going to close it. It's time to write a little code. So first thing we're going to do is we're going to create one of our friends, the buffered reader. So we're going to have some object that's of type buffered reader. And this is just a class that exists in Java.io. That's why you import that package. And you're going to be able to refer to objects of this type. So buffered reader, I'll just call it RD for reader for short. And what I'm going to set that to is a new buffered reader. So this is going to be a new buffered reader. And the new buffered reader needs some parameter. And here's where things get funky. The type of parameter it's going to take is something called a file reader. That's a special kind of object that knows how to attach itself to an actual file on disk. But I need to create one of those. So here's the idiom for how I create it. The idiom is just sort of the pattern you'll always see in programs. I say new buffered reader. And the parameter that I pass to a new buffered reader is a new file reader uppercase R new file reader. And the parameter that I give to new file reader is the name of the file on the disk. So if the file on the disk is called like in this example students.ext, I'd actually give it here as a string students.txt. I need a space for a few extra PNS there. So let me write that a little bit smaller. Students txt that's the end of the string. Then I have this PN close that PN and another PN close that PN. So what it does it says create a new file reader which basically is an object that associates with a particular file on the disk and that object is what gets passed into a buffered reader and the buffer reader is what you're going to ask to get line by line. So you're going to say hey buffer reader give me a new line and it's going to go say hey file reader get the line from that file and get it back and give it to you. Okay so this is just the standard idiom you always see in the way that it's written and you can put any string in here you want. As a matter of fact you can put in a string variable if you want. Now, after you've created that, how do you actually read from the file? So, let's have a while loop that'll read in every line of the file. So, we'll have a while true loop because we're going to keep reading until we reach the end of the file. And the way we read this is we're going to read the file line by line and each line is just a string. So, I'll have string line. I tell the buffered reader this RD object read line which kind of looks familiar to you cuz it sort of looks like reading a line from the user but in fact you're passing the read line message to the RD object which means get me a line from the file which file this file that I created the correspondence with over here. Okay. Now this will read line by line. Every time I call RD read line I'm going to get in some the next line from the file. What do I get when I reach the end of the file? And this is the crucial thing. One thing you might think is hey do you get an empty string like do you get double quote double quote? No. In fact I don't because the my file could actually create contain empty lines and I don't want to confuse an empty line in a file with the fact that I've reached the end of the file. So the way I signal reaching the end of the file is remember a string is just an object. How do I refer to an object that doesn't exist? Null. So what read line gives me back if I try to read a line past the end of the file is it gives me back a null. It says, "Hey, there is no string here for you to read." And the way I'm going to indicate that to you is to give you back a null. So, I can check that if line is equal equal to null, that means I've reached the end of the file. And so, I'm just going to break out. Here's my little loop and a half. I'm going to break out of this while loop. And if I got a valid line, I'm just going to print it to the the screen. So, all this code is going to do is take some file, read it line by line, and print every line to the screen. And since every line is just a string, I can just do a print lin to the of line and that will write it out to the screen. Okay, so any questions about this? Now there's one thing I haven't done yet. Right in my steps over here, I've opened the file because I created the buffer reader. I've read the file. Now I need to close the file. So after I've done reading all the lines from the file, let me move my brace up a little bit to give myself room for this. I just say RD. I refer to the object and then I say close. And there's no parameters there. And that kind of says, I'm done with you. Thanks. Thanks. You know, a buffered reader. You did good work. You got me all the lines of the file. And now I'm done with you. So I'm just going to close it off. Okay. Question. Just cycle through the entire program without having Yeah. Read line keeps track of where it is in the file itself. So every time you read a line, it's automatically keeping track of where it is in the file and will go to the next line. Nice catch. So now there's another thing that happens. And you're like, "Oh, good times. I'm all ready to read files, right? almost the one extra thing you need to know about and this is the part where it's just kind of one of the stickinesses of programming is what happens when bad things happen to good people you're like huh what does that mean well what that means is let's say I come along and I say hey buffered reader open up students do text and some evil person came along and deleted your students text file and so this guy's trying to create a correspondence between this buffered reader and students text and it says There is no students.ext. I got nothing here. What am I going to do? It needs to signal that back to you somehow. And the way it signals that back to you is it says, "Whoa, this is just something that I didn't expect at all." And it gives you something called an exception. Okay, so what is an exception and what's involved with actually getting an exception and dealing with exceptions. Okay, so the idea here is what we refer to when an exception happens, right? Like when this guy tries to look up this file and the file doesn't exist is the term we use is it throws an exception. That's just life in the city. All right. So let's say I'm the buffer file reader and I'm trying to read students.ext and students.te doesn't exist. So I say, "Oh, that's an exception. What am I going to do with the exception? I'm going to throw the exception." Right? So someone gets the exception. You got the exception. You don't just leave it there. You got the exception, man. All right. What are you going to do with the exception? I caught it. You caught it. That's important. Hold on to it for the time being. Okay, because it's important, right? That that's a a valuable commodity. So, just hold that exception. Hold that thought. Okay. So, when an exception gets thrown, there has to be some notion of catching the exception hopefully. And if no one catches the exception, your program is going to stop executing. Cuz if there's no one there to catch the exception, that exception is just going to sort of go up all possible functions in your program and say, "Hey, is there anyone here to catch me? There's no one here to catch me. Okay, your program's done because no one caught me. And I'm a pretty important thing to catch." Okay, that's why I needed you to catch it. I'll set you up for catching it because I know it took a little effort, but it's important to catch it. Just hold on to it for the time being. Okay. So, how do you actually catch an exception or how do you tell the computer, I'm going to do something that may involve an exception? So, you actually need to set it up and let the computer know, hey, I'm going to do something that may involve an exception. The way you say that is you say try. I want you to try something. This thing may throw an exception, so be prepared, but I want you to try it. Inside here, you have your code for file access. And that's whatever you're doing with the file, trying to create a new buffered reader with the file, reading in lines one by one, or closing a file. Anytime you're trying to do something that involves a file access, you need to put it inside this thing called a try that says, "Hey, I'm going to try this out." It may throw an exception. Now, what happens if it does throw an exception? You have something over here where you write catch. And what you're going to catch in this case is something called an IO exception because it's an exception that happens when you're trying to do IO or input output. And there's this ex thing which is actually the exception. It's that little envelope that you actually catch in your hands. And then you have some code here which is how to deal with the exception. Okay. So if you are doing something inside here and some place as soon as you get to it says whoa something bad happened exception. It does not execute any more of the remaining statements inside this block for try. As soon as it gets an exception inside here, it says, "Whoa, here's an exception." It throws it. Where are you going to catch it? You're going to catch it here. Which means as soon as an exception gets thrown, even in the middle somewhere here, the rest of this does not get executed and it comes over here to this code to deal with catching the exception. If it gets through all of the code where you say, "Hey, I'm going to try something dangerous." It gets through all of it and it doesn't throw an exception. This code down here is not executed. So this code down here is only executed if an exception was thrown. Okay, so what does that actually look like? Okay, let's write some code that deals with trying to catch an exception. Just just keep holding it. It's a good time. We're kind of, you know, running our program in slow motion. It's kind of like, oh, you've got the exception. And normally you'd be like, oh, catch here. I'm going to do something with it. Here we're kind of like, we're taking our time. It's mellow. It's good. Here, I'll give you a little more candy just to keep you awake with the exception. All right. You never thought just by like sitting there you could just accumulate food. All right. So, we have private. We're going to return a buffered reader. So, this is a function or a method we're going to write that's a private method inside some class. It's going to return a buffered reader. And what we'll call this is we'll call this open file. So, the name of the method, let me make this all a little bit smaller so I can fit it on one line. private buffered reader and what it's going to get passed is basically some string which is a prompt to ask the user for the name of the file to open. So that's a common thing you want to do. You ask the user, hey, what file do you actually want to open for reading? So how might I do that? I'm going to start off. I want to return one of these buffered readers, which means I'm going to need to have a buffered reader object in here at some point. So I'm going to declare a buffered reader as a local variable RD and I'm going to set it initially to be null which means I created the buffered reader at least I created a pointer for it a reference for it I have not actually created the object yet so I can't actually pass make any method calls on RD yet right I've just sort of created the local variable I'm going to actually create the object in just a second I'm going to have a while loop here and say while RD is equal equal to null so I know that that's going to execute the first time through cuz I set it equal to null to begin with. And then what I'm going to do inside here, so I have a brace there is I'm going to say, hey, I'm going to try something that may be dangerous. So what I want to try doing is I'm going to ask the user to give me the name of the file. So I'm going to have string name equals read line and I'll pass it whatever prompt was given to me as a parameter. Right? So I'm just asking all I'm doing here is asking the user to enter the name of the file. Right? And whatever prompt I write on the screen is excuse me just whatever was passed in here. So it might have been something like please enter file was the string. So I'll write out please enter file and ask the user for the file name. Now here comes the dangerous part. I want to create the buffered reader. So I say RD equals new buffered reader. And the parameter I'm going to pass to a buffered reader is new file reader. And the parameter I'm going to give to the file reader is whatever file name the user gave me. So this is just name. So what this is going to try to do is whatever the user gave me, it's going to try to create one of these new buffered reader objects that corresponds to the file with that name that's actually on disk. If that file exists and it creates the correspondence, life is good. RD actually is now pointing to some valid object which is a buffered reader. If that file does not exist, I've thrown an exception. and I say, "Bad times. The user mistyped something or they gave you the name of a file that doesn't exist. Here's an exception, buddy. It's not there. I can't create the correspondence." If that exception's thrown, right? I never created a new object, which means I never returned a value to assign to RD, which means RD still has the value null. That's an important thing because if I do this try and the file's not there, I'm going to catch this IO exception. Exception ex. And what I'm going to do when I catch that exception, I'm not actually going to do anything with the exception. The parameter ex that's passed in. All I'm going to do is just write a print lin to the person saying like bad file and then I'm going to have a closed PN and close PN here another or close brace for the while loop. So this brace corresponds to the while loop. And if all of this works out, I'll just I'll write it right over here on the side. I will return RD. That line would go right down here. Okay. So, what does this code do? It says create the space for an object or create one of these, you know, the pointers to an object, but set it to be null. It's not a point. It's not pointing to a real object yet. And while it remains null, ask the user for a line. Try to open up a buffered reader to that file. If this works, life is good. I don't execute the catch portion. And RD now has a nonnull value because it's actually a valid buffered reader object. And so when I try to do this while loop again, RD is no longer equal to null, which means I'm done with the loop and I will return this object that I just created, which is actually this object that is a valid correspondence to