a file. So that's a very convenient way in one method to encapsulate all the work of opening up a file and getting a valid reference to a buffered reader that refers to that file. If I tried to create this file reader and this file for whatever reason did not exist, an exception gets thrown. If an exception gets thrown, execution doesn't complete at this line. So RD never gets assigned a new value and it immediately goes to the catch and says, "Hey, here's the exception. I couldn't find the file." What does the exception catcher do? It says, "Hey, bad file, buddy. And then it's done, right? It just reaches the end of the catch part and execution continues. So it comes to the end of the while loop, comes back up here and RD still has the value null. So it asks the user, hey, enter a file again and tries to do this whole process again. And you'll get out of this loop when buffered reader actually gets a valid object. Uhhuh. Is it better practice to keep the try block as small as possible? Yeah, that's a good point. What you want to do is when you're trying something dangerous, you don't want to just tell your whole program. You don't want to say, "Hey, program, let me put everything inside a try because I'm going to be doing all this dangerous stuff and I don't know when I'm going to do it. I might do a little here and a little over there." So, put it all inside this huge try block. That's really bad style. What you really want to do is only do as little as possible in the try and say, "Hey, I'm about to do something dangerous. Let me encapsulate that in one of these things." That's a try c. We refer to it as a try catch block because we have a try and a catch. And as soon as I'm done with the dangerous part, then let me get out of that try block because I need to know that. Okay, now I'm not doing dangerous stuff anymore. And the programmer needs to know that when they see the files, they need to understand when you're doing dangerous stuff versus not. Okay, so any questions about that? This notion of throwing an exception. All right, so now here's the interesting thing that happens. Okay, sometimes when an exception gets thrown, you know what you want to do. Like you want to say, hey, that file didn't exist. I write out bad file and I keep executing. Sometimes you get an exception and you have no idea what to do. You try to, you know, you created this correspondence to students. That worked just fine. And you start reading lines from the file and it's just fine. But before you get to the end of the file, what happens? Your roommate comes along and deletes the file or like beats your computer on the head and your disc crashes or whatever and your program's still executing, but your disc is no longer working. This has actually happened before. You try to say, "Hey, buffered reader, get me a line." and it says there's no more line. Like I thought I had the file and everything but there's no more line. I don't know what to do. What does it do? It throws an exception. Sometimes when it throws an exception. What are you going to do here? Right? You just try to read a line. You're like, "What? The line doesn't exist, but but the file existed. Now you're telling me the line doesn't exist. What am I going to do?" Sometimes you don't know what you're going to do. And when you don't know what you're going to do, what you do is you say, "Hey, you know that exception that got thrown to me? I'm just going to keep throwing it. So throw the exception back to me. And somewhere now I don't feel so bad about missing you the first time. Someone gets the exception right and if I didn't get it like you throw it to me and I'm just like what exception right and I'm your program the program just dies. Someone comes along beats me on the head and says hey you didn't catch the exception you stop executing. But sometimes like someone gets it and they're like hey I know what to do with the exception. It's all good right? They get something out and they're like yeah really all the exception was was some clothing I needed you to wear. You didn't know how to wear it. I'm sorry, you're not quite as stylish as I am. So, I know how to deal with the exception. Once I know how to deal with the exception, I'm done with the exception. I kind of keep executing from where I'm at, but I appreciate you catching the exception to begin with. And if you didn't know what to do with it, you just keep throwing it along its way. Okay. So, one more time just for just for throwing it. And to the people around you for for getting pelted with candy. All right. So, what does this actually look like in code? Okay. So, let's look at a little code. Come on, little guy. Wake up. Oh, sleepy Mac. Sleepy Mac. All right. So, what does this actually look like in code? What's going to happen is here's our little function that we just wrote over there, our method that returned a buffered reader. So, this is all the same code. It creates a buffered reader that's null. While it's null, it asks the user for a file name. It tries to create a new buffered reader with that file name. If it doesn't exist, it says, "Nice try, punk. That file doesn't exist." And it asks again. Right? So this is just fine. This is what we wrote. This is an exception that we know how to deal with. We don't actually use this ex portion. You don't need to care about that or whatever. You just say, "Yeah, I know the file didn't exist. So I'll write out a message to the user and keep executing." Now down here, don't worry about the set font. That's just making the font bigger. I'm going to say, "Hey, I'm going to call my open file." This basically a passive aggressive program. It asks you real nicely, please enter the file name. And if you get it wrong, it's nice try, punk. That file doesn't exist. And then it says, please enter a file name. Right. Um just we'll make no more comments about passive aggressive behavior. Um, but it calls open file. It passes in this prompt and what it's guaranteed to get back is an RD object that is a valid file. Right? Because if it didn't get a valid file, it just keeps looping here until it got a valid object that it could actually correspond has a correspondence to the file. And you're like, "Oh, that's great. Now I need to read the file." reading the file is a dangerous thing to do because I'm referring to this file and I don't know if something bad will suddenly happen and the file will go away. So I put this inside another one of these try catch blocks. So not only do I have a try catch block for making the for opening the file every time I try to read the file or potentially close the file I need to have one of these two. So this guy comes along and says okay I'm going to have a while true loop and read all the lines of the file kind of like Maron showed me before. So I'll have this variable line that I just read a line from the file. If that line is null, then I know I've reached the end of the file. So, I'm done. I break out of the while loop and I will come here and close the file. Always remember to close your file. It's just good practice. If the line is not null, I'm just going to write it out to the screen. I'll say read line and I'll write out inside little brackets just so it's clear what the beginning and ending of the line were, the line that I read in. Okay? And I'll just keep doing this. And when I'm done and I don't get an exception, I close the file and I will skip over this catch portion and just keep executing, which means my program is done. If however while I'm reading the file one of my I say read line and it just doesn't exist. I come over here to the exception and I say hey I got this IO exception. I don't know how to deal with that right I don't know how to deal with the fact that I just read a line it doesn't exist. So I'm just going to throw an exception to someone else. So what I do inside here is I will throw a new exception. And the exception you will always throw if you don't know which exception to throw which is most of the time you won't know which exception to throw is something that we call the error exception. So you say, "Hey, I got an exception. I don't know how to deal with it. Maybe someone else who was trying to access me put me inside a try catch block. So I'm going to throw an exception up to them and see if they can catch the exception. And the exception I'm going to throw is an error exception. And error. And when you throw an exception, it has a parameter. And that's just the exception object that you're throwing along. You actually got some exception object passed to you when the exception was thrown. You didn't want to look inside. You didn't want to deal with it. As a matter of fact, you don't need to look inside or deal with it. All you're going to do is just continue to pass that exception object up to the person who may have called you. Okay? So when you throw an exception, execution would stop in the method that you're at. At that point where you throw the exception, the method will end and it will throw an exception up to whoever called this method. Okay? Unless this happens to all be inside some other catch block inside here, in which case you'll catch the exception yourself. But if you're not trying to catch the exception yourself, it'll just get passed up and someone else will catch it. Okay? So, any questions about this? Here we know how to deal with the exception. Here we don't know how to deal with the exception. And if you want to actually be able to pass an error exception, that's something that's defined in this thing called ACM util. So, it's an exception that's defined in the ACM libraries. You should import ACM.util.star to be able to throw one of these error exceptions. Okay, so this is let me just run this program just so you can actually see that it works. This is another file example. And then I will show you something that's extremely cool, which is basically in 10 lines of code, you can copy files, doing it all in Java. And you're like, "Yeah, Maron, but I can copy files in like four clicks of my mouse." Yeah, what if I just took your mouse and just busted it, right? Then what would you do? You're like, "Yeah, then I then I'd write a Java program to copy a file." Um, don't force me to bust your mouse. My one of my other mice busted last night. It was just a harrowing experience. So, I want to enter the file name and I say, "Oh, the file name is what what was that called? called Was it called Stanford? Stanford.txt. No. Oh, it was called students. I keep pressing the A. Stu. Yeah, I can't even type anymore. Wasn't it called students? No, it was called students.txt. Oh, I forgot the S. Students.txt. And then when it finally gets a valid file and creates the correspondence, notice it's reading the lines from the file one by one, and it just got them as strings and it's printing them out. Okay, any questions about that? So besides reading files, sometimes in life we also want to be able to write files. So here's the quicky way to be able to write a file. Okay, it's sim very similar. It's actually writing a file is even re easier than reading one if you can believe that. And you're like, but Maron, reading one is pretty easy. Yeah, it is. And writing one's even easier. So it's just that much cooler. If I can find my chalk, it'll be even that much cooler. Here it is. What you're going to do is guess what you're going to open a file to write. This is something rather than using a buffered reader, we call it a print writer. You will create a print writer object. Two, you will write to the file. Unlike reading from the file where you use readlin, it's very easy to write to a file. You just do print lens to the file. You use print lin, but you're actually going to be passing print to some object here. What object? Your print writer object. Okay? And the same ways you've used print lint to write on the screen, you can use it exactly the same way to write to a file. And when you are done, you will close the file. Gee, that looks real familiar, right? So let's actually see what that looks like in code. So what I'm going to show you is a little program that copies a file line by line. So once again, here's the exact same function we wrote before to open a file for reading. So this has our buffered reader stuff and our little while loop and keeps asking for file names until we read the file. So it's exactly the same code. We're just reusing the code. That's part of the beauty of code reuse, right? What we're going to do here is we're going to open a file by asking the user to enter a file name. And this is the file that's going to be our reader. So our object is RD. Now we're going to create a file that is a or a object which is a writer. So we're going to try because we're going to do something dangerous. Creating a file is just as dangerous or writing a file is just as dangerous as reading one. As a matter of fact, in some sense, in a more esoteric way, it is more dangerous. Why is it more dangerous? Because if you try to tell the computer write to a file which already exists, what's it going to do? You might say, will it tell you that it already exists? Will it try to give you a different file name? No. It'll go smash the file that exists there to bits and write a brand new file. Which means, yeah, if you're overwriting students.ext, not a big deal. If you're overwriting your word processor, big deal. Be careful what file names you give when you are writing because if that file name already exists it will get rid of the one that's already there and overwrite it with a new one which is whatever you happen to write into it. Okay. So print writer we're going to create a new writer and we want to inside a print writer just like we had this little thingy up here where we had a buffered reader and a buffered reader used a file reader over here when we create a print writer and this is all in chapter 12 of the book so you don't need to worry about scribbling this down quickly. a print writer. You say new file writer is the object you create and pass to a print writer and you give it a file name. Here I've you could have given it, you know, like a string variable or whatever. Here I've just put in directly copy.ext. So the thing I'm going to create is a file called copy.ext. All your files need to be in the same project as your code. So that's where new files will get created. That's where when it looks to read a file, that's where it's going to look as that same file that has your project. So I have a while true loop. What am I going to do in my while true loop? I'm gonna read one line at a time from my input file, from my reader. If my reader has no more lines, I get a null and I say, "Hey, I'm done reading." I'm gonna break out of the loop. If I'm not done reading, I've just gotten a line. I'm going to write that line to the screen using print lin. So, print lin without any object over here writes to the console because this is a print lin that is being called on the uh console program and it writes to the console. When I do w.printlin, print lin that's sending printlin to the write write the print writer object and it's writing out the line. So it's saying here's this line. Hey print writer write this out to the file that you correspond to. It says oh okay I'll go write it in copy.ext and I keep looping like this. I get a new line if it's not the end of the file. Then I write it to the screen and I write it to the file. If I go through this whole while loop and finish off everything. So I finish the whole file. I get to where line equals null. I say hey I'm done reading the file. also close the file to read. I'm also done writing the file. So I tell the writing file, the print writer to close itself. And this whole time if something bad happens and I get an exception, I catch the exception and say, I don't know what to do with it. I'm just going to throw it to someone else. Okay? And that's the whole program. That's all the code you need to copy a file. So let's run this and just make sure it actually works. Operation in progress. And just to show you that I'm not lying, let me cancel this for a second. We'll open up some folders. Notice no copy.ext in here. Here's the little project file that I have. Okay, there's my copy file class. My copy file Java file. Here's my students.ext file. No copy.ext file. Now, magic. All right, we run. See, I had to tell you that because I could have just cheated. I could have been like, yeah, I just typed up the copy.ext file. Running. Running. running in. Oh, come on. You can do it. And And your glowing blue. I love the glowing blue. It's fun. Copy file. Please enter file name. Students.ext. I'll spare you the uh the incorrect file names. So, it's copy. It says copying line. It writes out all these lines to the screen. Let's see if it actually exists. Oh, copy.ext. It's warm. It's fuzzy. It's fun. Now, if you look over here, just wondering, you might look in your project and say, "Hey, I don't see I thought this, you know, shows me everything in my folder. I don't see copy.ext show up here." Yeah, you go up here, you rightclick, you pick refresh. Ah, copy.ext. And there it is. Looks identical to students.ext. There you go. All righty. Any questions? Then I will see you on Monday.