CHUNK 2/3

[04:00 - 07:30]

Now, let's add more functionality to this. When read more is clicked, open a dialogue to show full details about the event. Also add options on top right of screen for user to add a new event and edit an existing event that they select in the gallery. The add edit form should fly in from left to right off the screen.

I'll hit send once again. The app agent starts reviving its magic.

You can always take a look at the agent thoughts. These are the requirements that it has understood. Read more dialogue, add edit buttons, and more.

If the page that it builds out doesn't match your expectations, you can always undo or you can start over from scratch.

The app agent has made the updates. Let's click on read more. Here is a dialogue that shows details about that event.

I also have the option to add an event. Here is the flyyout form. The user can also select an existing event and modify it.

Let's publish. Let's refresh our page. The summer fest. Let's update. This one's going to start now on the 11th and end on the 11th. Save. There's the update.

Let's try and add a new event. Power Platform Conference. Add. Let's go to October. Here is my event.

That's how easily I can build a calendar screen in a modeldriven app.

The most asked question, does this only work for data versse? Currently, yes. However, what if I have data in a different data source, for example, a SharePoint list or a SQL table and I would like to build gen page based on this data.

Now one of the options that I have is to use data flows where I can bring data into data versse from a different data source and that will create a data vers table build out the schema and also import my data.

Another option is when I'm building tables, I'll say I want to create a new table. Here I can start describing my tables to copilot or import from a SharePoint list, Excel file, CSV file. I have a lot of options to bring data into database.

But let's say in this scenario, I have a product catalog list that is maintained in SharePoint. I want to keep my data in SharePoint, but I still want to build a database table that understands this schema and allows me to build a model driven app so I can create gen pages.

Let's see how we can do that.
