CHUNK 1/3

[00:00 - 04:00]

Hello everyone, Raza here. In this video, we will learn how to use the gen pages experience in Power Apps to create React pages using data from data versse or other data sources like SharePoint. We will give the agent some sample designs and see how this agent can connect to a backend data source. The scenarios I'll cover event calendar and product catalog. So, let's begin.

The first scenario I have an events table in Microsoft data versse. This stores details about the name of the event, start date, end date, location, category.

From a table in data versse, we can directly create an app. And this will be a modeldriven power app that will lead us to the standard modeldriven app view and form experience.

Here is the published version of the app that I'm running. It lists out all the data from my events table. I can sort, filter, search, visualize data and more.

However, I would like to build a calendar experience customized, styled and designed, and this should be available as a page within my model driven app.

For inspiration, I used dribble. And here is an example of how I would like my events page to look like.

Back to our model driven app. Let's go ahead and add a page by describing our page using generative pages.

First up, I'll go and attach that image as the design inspiration.

Next, I will describe the kind of page I want. Build me a page using the design attached. The data context should come from. I'll go add data.

Add my table. Here is the table that's connected in my model driven app called event. I'll add that context generate.

The app agent begins its magic based on the design style that I provided based on the context of my events table. The app agent will start generating my react page.

It builds me a similar looking experience with the data coming from my events table. We are in the preview experience. So we can explore the page right here. I can even search for events. Search for jazz. Jazz festival is coming up on August 8th. I can even filter based on the category of my event. These are the list of upcoming conferences.

This page I'll rename it. I'll call it events calendar view. I can also give it an icon. I can use web resources. Any of the existing ones or I can upload a new web resource. I'll just pick the eye icon. Done. I'll save that. That saves the page. I'll publish my model driven Power App.

Done. I'll go ahead and play this app. Here's my app. Here is my generative page that shows data from my events table.
