much it's straightforward for youto sign in. And once you're in, you wantto head over to the dashboard and evenon a free plan, you'll be given an APIkey to start scraping with. So where Iwant to go from here is to go to thedocs because this is where all the APIdocumentation is going to rest at and goto the API reference. In this case, Iwant to scrape. So this is the postrequest for scrape. I'm going to hit ontry it and copy the curl command uphere. And before copying the curlcommand up here, what I'll do is I'mgoing to put in the URL of the page thatI want to scrape. So in this case, thepage that I want to scrape is actuallyTechCrunch, specifically the Gen AIsection of the news. So, I'm going tocopy that and go back and just paste theURL here. As you can see, this going tochange the JSON body of the URL to theURL that I've intended here. Of course,you can do this manually within theworkflow itself as you import the curlcommand, but I thought it easier to justdo it beforehand. And we can just copythe whole curl chunk and go back to theworkflow here and click on import andpaste the entire curl command. As youcan see, there's a post method to thisparticular URL. every one of thesefields are configured the way we neededto. And under authentication, we'regoing to set this up again the same waywe've set it up for the openweathermap.org. So, we're going to hitgeneric credential type and then we'regoing to pick header o because that'swhere the authentication credentialslies for this particular API call. Andthen we're going to create a newcredential. So, we're going to call thiscredential fire crawl codecloud demo.And just before I go any further here, Iwant to go back to the documentation andlook at the the header within the curlcommand. In this case, what we're goingto pay attention to is the name of theauthentication here, which isauthorization. And we're going to typein authoriz. And under value, we seethat it's got bearer space API token.So, what we want to do is go back. I'mgoing to toggle this to expression soyou can see what I'm typing in is bearerthe API token which you're going to getby going to the dashboard and copyingthe API key here and pasting that intothe field. So there you go. Hit save andthat credential is going to be saved.Okay. So going back you notice thatunder the send headers portion is toggleto live and it actually has the samething which is authorization which wedon't need anymore because we alreadyhave it all set up here. So we're justgoing to toggle that off and then focuson the body right here. So, we'vealready set the body up earlier beforecopying it over. So, there's nothingmuch we need to do here. So, we're justgoing to hit execute step. There you go.So, there a couple of output data here.As you can see, the main content isreally under the markdown. And I'm goingto toggle this to a table format so it'seasier to see, but it basically feedsyou the headlines of the news of the daythat has to do with Gen AI. So, as youcan see, Tech Crunch covers the latestnews, da da da, headlines only, learnmore, and here are the links to thoseheadlines. And yeah, so this is a simplescrape. So it's going to scrape all theinformation within that particular webpage. But of course, you can format thismore within firecrawl itself. But inthis section, I just want to show howeasy it is to set up an API call to calla web scraper or any other type of appsthat might be interest or might beuseful to your workflow. So, building onto that, I wanted to show what happenswhen you have a post request thatrequires a get for you to obtain theresult of your post request in the firstplace. So, we're going to stick withfirecrawl. In this case, under firecrawl, there are a couple of featuresthat we can use. So, one of them isextract. So, how's extract differentfrom scape? Well, extract is an AIpowered way for Firefly to extractstructured data from either single page,multiple page, or even an entire websiteand any of the subdomains or subpagesassociated to those websites. So, it'san extremely useful tool for us to use.So, what we want to do here is head overback to the docs. Where you want to gois go to the documentation tab andscroll down to extract. There's a prettygood curl example that we can make useof here. So I'm going to copy the entirecurl command here and just go back tothe workflow and hit import curl. Youcan see all the fields here that needsto be configured are all added. And whatI want to do first here is to select thesame authentication that I've set uppreviously under generic credential typeand header o and firecrawl codeclouddemo. So as you can see since we havealready set up the header off here wecan toggle this off and move on to theJSON body. Now the reason why I pickedthe example is because this already beenpre-filled. So it's easy for us to runthis example so that you don't have toreally fill in every single sections orvariables that is required to be filled.What's happening is that the promptthat's given to extract the companymission whether it supports SSO whetherit is open source or whether it is in Ycombinator from the page. So that's theprompt for extract. So it's going to tryto get relevant information surroundingthat prompt. So let's go back. We'regoing to stick with that and we're goingto hit execute step. So when we do that,as you can see that the note says it isexecuted successfully. What it means isit's pushed through the post request tothe API endpoint successfully and it'scurrently processing the post request.Now because it's extracting for a coupledifferent pages and specificinformation, it's going to take sometime. So what we want to do now is wait,right? So and how do we wait within theworkflow? Well, you can actuallyintroduce what we call the wait node. Sointroducing the weight node, you canactually configure the amount of timethat you want to wait. So in this casewe're going to hit 30 seconds and ofcourse the weight unit is in seconds andyou can change that to minutes, hoursand days depending on your needs butwe're going to wait 30 seconds here.Going to remain rename this to that.Okay. So I'm going to hit execute stepas well. So the data is populated here.But what I want to do with the firecrawl extract post is that I want to pinthe data because every time I run thisparticular node, it's going to exhaustmy API token. It's going to consume myAPI token and I want to make sure thatthe pre-populated data stays here forevery execution run. So that's going tobe super helpful for me. As we wait forthe wait note to complete the load, whatwe want to do here is to introduce theHTTP get request. So going back into thefirewall documentation, what you want todo is scroll down for that example andhere's the curl get command that you cancopy and go back to your workflow. Hitimport curl. And basically all therequired field has been set up. So ifyou look at the documentation, you'llsee that the extract ID comes from theslash after the endpoint. So what wewant to do is introduce the same here.Use a slash and toggle that toexpression and drag the request ID, thepost request ID into the field here. Andof course, this is the same post requestID as what the previous nodes waspassing the same data into the weightnode. and hence we're using that in thefield here. So essentially what we'retelling it to do is to get the result ofthis particular post request ID andreturn those results here. So I'm goingto rename this firecrawl get request.All right, things are pretty much set uphere but we have to again select thesame authentication method in this casethe firecrawl codecloud demo and thenwe're going to hit execute step. Sothere you go. As you can see, move thisinto a schema format and it's extractingthe information that we want, which is acompany mission. At the same time, italso tells us the status which iscompleted. And this is important becauseas you wait, I know we put in 30 secondshere. It's not necessarily going to becompleted within 30 seconds. So, let'ssay after the post request, we wait 30seconds and then the get requestlaunches and the status is not yetcompleted. What will happen then? Well,the workflow will break down. there willbe an error and the workflow will stopworking. So to avoid that scenario, whatwe want to do is to create what we calla loop and in this case we're going toadd an if node so that we can continuethat logic. And what we'll do here isunder firecrawl get request we want totake the status and drag it into thisfield here. And because this is going tobe strings as you can see completed is astring. If the string is equal tocompleted, as you can see, I test runthat and basically this is true. Itfalls into the true branch. It'spopulated. False branch is notpopulated. It's true because the JSONstatus here is completed as per therequirement. So if that's true, it'sgoing to continue and maybe send thatcompleted extracted data onto somethingelse such as maybe sending it to let'ssay a Gmail send a message note and wecan populate the content which is inthis case a company mission let's sayand the message and I'll just say herecompany mission right so two let's sayI'm just going to pick maronecloud.comso it doesn't matter because this isjust an email or any other output nodethat you want to set However, if thestatus is false, what it means is thatafter waiting for 30 seconds, when wetry to get the result of the postrequest, it's still not ready. So, whathappens is under the false branch, we'regoing to wait another 30 seconds becausewe want to wait until it is ready. Okay?And we're going to wait another 30seconds and we're going to loop thisback onto the firecrawl get request. Asyou can see, the yellow highlightscoming out because there are somechanges that we made to the node whichis connecting it with another potentialprevious node. This loop will avoid thebreakdown of the workflow in the casewhere after waiting for 30 seconds therequest is not ready and it's checkingthat by the if note because if therequest is not ready the status is goingto say in progress and therefore it'snot completed and it's false it'll waitfor another 30 seconds and try to getthe result again. And if still not readyby then it's still going to go into thefalse branch and it's going to waitanother 30 seconds and going to try toget it again. So it's going to be inthis loop until it is ready and hencethe status is completed and becomes trueand then it sends out as an email. Sothis is how we can use loop to avoid abreakdown of workflow when it comes toan API request that requires time toprocess and it requires a second step ofgetting the result from the app. Sowe're just going to run this again justto make sure it's populated. Butessentially that covers the principalworkings of how we would go aboutbuilding a workflow with HTTP requestnode to access API endpoints of otherapps that are not necessarily native toany. In this section, we're going tobuild from scratch a text to imageworkflow. This is how the workflow isgoing to look like in the end. The goalof this workflow is for you to beginwith a text input specifying how youwould like the image to be created in asimple format and that will be passed onto an image prompt agent that would thencreate an effective prompt to be passedto an image generation model in aplatform called Wspeed AI. Now waistspeed AI is just one of the manyplatforms that host video or imagegeneration model like V3 or Cadets. Alittle caveat, it is a paid platform andto be able to use the API calls, you'llneed to top up a minimum of $10. Now,we'll walk you through how to set up apost API call to waist speed and how topost a get API call to get the result ofthe image from waist speed and then howto set up an if loop just to make surethat the workflow doesn't break downwhen the image or video isn't ready yet.And finally, we're going to pass on theresult or the output of the image into asimple Gmail. And the output node can bereplaced by any form of outputs such asTelegram, WhatsApp or Slack. Now,starting from scratch, the first triggerthat you want to hit in this case is thechat trigger node. And again, we'rechoosing the chat trigger node becausewe want to be able to tell the workflowa certain specification of the imagethat you want to be generated. And thisdoesn't have to be super detailedbecause again, you will have an AI imageprom agent that's going to help youcraft an effective prompt. But in thiscase, I'm going to just populate thechat note data with a simple create animage of a cat flying through oops ofrainbows. All right. And that data isnow populated in the payload. As you cansee, the chat input is created image ofa cat flying through groups of rainbows.Cool. All right. And the second nodewe're going to introduce here is theOpenAI node, which is just a messagemodel node. In this case, I'm going torename this image prompt generation AI.All right. So, the OpenAI account hasbeen connected as per as how we've gonethrough in the previous section. Andwe're going to choose a model here. Andwe're going to pick GPT4.1. And ofcourse, we're going to drag the chatinput into here as the user input. Andwhat I'm going to do here is I'm goingto add a system message just to specifyexactly what I want this node to do. Andhere's the system message that I'veprewritten. I'm going to toggle this toexpression so I could blow it up. As youcan see, I did not come up with thissystem prompt. What I did was I went tochatgpt and essentially asked it to actas a prom engineer and come up with aneffective system prompt for a text toimage generation prom engineer. So Irecommend that you do that for allproduction cases because LLMs are justmuch better at coming up with systemprompts than we are. and you don'treally have you can do it yourself, butI would say that starting off with anLLM and iterating it and improving theversion afterwards is a much easier wayto go about it. So, as you can see, itsays you're an expert text imagegeneration prom engineer working insideand in an automation. Your only task isto generate clear, vivid, and effectiveprompts to be passed to an imagegeneration API. I'm not going to readthe whole thing, but essentially it'sjust giving it details on how we wantthe output of the video or rather theimage prompt generation to be. Cool. Allright. So, I'm going to hit execute stephere and see what kind of output itgives me. So, as you can see, thecontent has been outputed is an imageprompt generation, which is a playfulcat soaring gracefully through vibrantglowing hoops made of rainbows suspendedin the sky surrounded by fluffy clouds,dynamic motion, bright and whimsicallighting. magical atmosphere highlightdetailed digital art fantasyillustration style. So great. So it'sdescribing the image the background aswell as the style that we want it to bein. Cool. All right. So after the imagegeneration prompt where we want theoutput to go is to HTTP request node toway speed API. So I'm going to renamethis a simple way post because this isgoing to be the post API that we'regoing to call to waist speed. So goingback to waist speed again if you guysare new to this platform what you needto do is sign up it's pretty easy andstraightforward there's going to be someonboarding questionnaires and stuff likethat but it's pretty easystraightforward to sign up and I'malready signed in here where I will gois I will go to the explore models hereand as you can see there are many modelsthat you can try and play around withbut in this case what we want to do iswe're going to checkbox the text toimage so that we are only given the textto image models here and we're justgoing to take the first one which isCream by my dance and we're going totoggle over to the API documentationhere. As you can see there's there's apost curl command that I can easily copyand import to my workflow. So going backto the workflow I'm going to click onimport curl. I'm going to paste theentire curl command here. And there yougo. The fields are populated. The nextthing I want to set here is theauthentication method which as we'vegone through. We're going to choose thegeneric credential type header off. AndI already have a waist speed credentialset up here. But what I'm going to do,I'm going to create a new credential sothat it's clear on how to set this up.So I'm going to call this waypecredential demo. And under the name,just to be sure, I'm going back to theAPI documentation here. And under name,so the name should be authorization. Andthe value is bearer API key. And what Iwant to do is I'm going to head over tothe API key section. And as you can see,I already have an API key generated. Butwhat you can do is you can actuallycreate a new key and hit that create keyand it'll just give you a new API keyfor you to copy from. But in this case,I'm going to use the existing one. Goingto copy that. I'm going to go back andunder value, I'm going to toggle this toexpression so you can see it. I'm goingto type beer space API key and I'm goingto hit save. Cool. So now that's set up.Under the hitter section, I can togglethis off because the authentication isalready contained within the hittersection. So I can just remove that andfocus on the body section. Now there area couple fields here under the bodysection and most of it is just how youwant the image to be the ratio as wellas the size here. But what we want topay attention