inthis case is an upload file. So this iswhen you drop a photo into that specificdrive. Right? So we're going to pick inthis case I have a folder ready which iscalled image to video codecloud. Allright. So I'm going to pick that fromthe list and watch for file created.Right? So I'm going to click on fetchtest event and because initially we I'vealready uploaded a file just a minuteago. It's reading this as a trigger withthe corresponding output payload. As youcan see, there are a couple of datahere, but where we really want to payattention to is a web URL link which ispublicly available and the variabletitle is web content link. So, this isthe link that we'll be most interestedin. And just so that everything workswell, we want to make this publiclyaccessible. So, make sure that youchange the settings to be publiclyavailable at least during the testingperiod. So the second node that we wantto introduce here is a telegram nodebecause what we want to do essentiallyis when a photo has been dropped intothe folder, we want to get anotification on the telegram chat. Sothis is a simple send a photo message ontelegram and I already have my telegramaccount set up but I'm going to show youvery quickly how you can do that ontelegram and what you want to do is typein on the search bar on top herebotfather and you want to make sure thatit's the correct one which is the onewith a blue tick and it's going to leadyou to this page. And what you want todo is hit on start and it's going tohave an automated/startuh message here. And what botf father isa place where you create your botswithin telegram. And this is not to beconfused with the air agents that we'recreating on nn end. This is simply a botthat listens in to the communicationwithin telegram and be able to pass onthat as a trigger to your end workload.Now in this case I'm going to create anew bot. So I'm just going to choose a /newbot and I'm going to need to name thebot. So I'm going to say end it in testdemo one and I also need to give it abot name. So the same thing I'm going toadd it a bot. So there you go. This is alink to chat with the bot. The bot hasbeen created and this is the API keythat we can copy. So I'm going to clickon that. I'm going to go back to myworkflow and in this case I'm going tocreate new credential under telegram.I'm going to name it telegram demo. AndI'm going to essentially paste theaccess token here and hit save. Andthere we go. We're going to look out forthe green bar here. So connection hasbeen tested successfully. All right. Sonow that's connected. The otherconfiguration of the fields that we wantto do here is to fill in the chat ID.And for the chat ID, what we want to dohere is we want to call another telegramtrigger, which is the second triggerthat will activate a separate part ofthe workflow where then you can inputthe video ideas that you want into theworkflow. So in this case, I'm going toscroll down. I'm going to go to triggersand then I'm going to pick the onssagetrigger. So the credentials that it'sconnected with is Telegram demo which isthe same credential and the trigger ison message. I'm going to hit executestep. As you can see it says there'sproblem running the workflow. Pleaseresolve outstanding issues before youactivate it. It has nothing to do withthis node because as you've noticed theproblem actually lies in the other nodethat I was setting up halfway. So Ididn't finish it because I needed thechat ID and in order to get the chat ID,I was going to use a trigger note tocall the chat and then paste the chat IDover here. That's what I was trying todo. But so in the in room what I'm goingto do, I'm just going to fill this inwith a dummy content which is just astring which is a test test and thatshould solve the issue and let me runthis node. Right? So I'm going toexecute step and it's waiting for atrigger event. So I'm going to go backto my telegram chat and again I'm goingto click on this link. So it's going tolead me to a chat with the bot and I'mgoing to say test.Oh, okay. So let's start. So, so as youcan see, it's capturing the very firstmessage here. And because it was just atest workflow, it stops after the firstiteration. So, the first iteration was /start is not capturing the second one,which is the test here. Cool. All right.So, let's head back here. And so, that'sthe Telegram trigger. Let's get the chatID here, which is the one here. Andbecause this is going to be the samechat ID throughout, as that's the wayyou would communicate with the bot. So,I'm just going to copy the chat ID here,which is the ID of interest. And becausethis is going to be the exact same chatthat we're going to communicate withthis workflow, I can just basically copythe ID and paste the ID hardcoded intomy chat ID here. So it doesn't need tobe dynamic. All right, cool. So we wantto drag now the photo variable into thisfield. But again, because I ran theTelegram trigger earlier, it is nowrewriting my previous node, which is theGoogle Drive trigger node with nothing.So, what I want to do is just go toexecutions and go to my very firstexecution. And as you can see, this ispopulated with the previous data. AndI'm going to copy that to editor. Andnow it's going to populate this. Andthen what I want to do is go to theTelegram node. And I'm going to drag theURL of the image that rests on theGoogle Drive. So, we're going to scrollright down here. And this is basicallythe URL that is publicly available nowthat I have shared the permission toanyone being able to be with the link.So I'm going to just drag this into thisfield. And what I want to do is alsojust add a caption to this because whatI want to say is you've uploaded thisphoto to the Google folder. Kindlyprovide the video idea that you want togenerate from this image. Okay. So, I'mgoing to just blow this up so that youcan see it. You have uploaded this phototo the Google folder. Kindly provide thevideo ID that you want to generate fromthis. Okay. Type here from this image.So, cool. I'm going to hit execute stepand see what it does. So, all right.It's sending uh some type of stuff intomy Telegram chat. So, let's see. Now,it's saying this. is sending me thecorrect image which is the cat goingthrough the hoops. It says you'veuploaded this photo to Google folder.Kindly provide the video idea that youwant to generate from this image.Perfect. So that's how I want to benotified of any photos that anyone ormyself have dropped onto the folder. SoI'm going to just move this up. And thenext node just finishing this cartworkflow would be a Google sheet nodebecause what we wanted to do is wewanted to append a row in sheet orrather log the information about thephotos that have been uploaded into theGoogle sheet. Right? So this could bewe're going to name it image log. Allright. So it is simply logging it to asheet that I've created here which iscalled image to video log and it's justa simple two column sheet. The firstcolumn being the image URL. The secondcolumn being the date when it wasuploaded or created. And I'm going tomake sure that the sharing permission ispublic as well. And I'm going to headback here and I'm going to choose fromthe list image to video log. So there'sonly one sheet there. So it's going tobe sheet one. And it's going to read outthe two columns which is the image URLand date. For the image URL, what we cando is that we can go to the Google Drivetrigger and drag the same web link fromGoogle Drive and just paste it here. Andfor the date, we want to scroll down tovariables and we're going to drag thenow variable. All right. Cool. We'regoing to hit execute step. All right.And then we see that now the secondimage has been uploaded at this at thistime. Cool. All right. So that's done.That part workflow is completed. What wewant to do now is to move on from createa video agent. And in this case, I'mgoing to use open message and modelnode. And this is essentially a videoagent. And I've got my open air accountalready connected as before. I'm goingto choose the model here which is GPT4.1. And again I want to execute theprevious node. Okay. And right now itsays test not very meaningful for me torun the test run. So what I want to dois I want to open up the node andexecute step so that it can get newinformation. And then I'm going to goback to my Telegram chat and I'm goingto create a video of a cat jumpingthrough oops of rainbows and opening upa parachute towards the end so that itcan land safely. Okay, so I'm going tosend that message through Telegram. Asyou can see, it's getting the text whichis create a video of a cat jumpingthrough hoops of rainbows and opening upa parachute towards the end so that itcan land safely. Cool. Okay. So, let'sgo back to the video prompt agent. Now,this is populated. What I want to do isI want to direct this text into theprompt field here, which is the userprompt because that's the video ID thatit's going to work on for it videoprompt. So, next thing I want to do is Iwant to define the system prompt forthis node. And again, it is prettysimilar to the previous sections whereit was a text to image or a text tovideo model. And you can definitely makeuse of tragic PT to effectively createand craft the system message for a videoprompt engineer. But what I want to showhere is I'm going to blow this up, putit on expression so that you can see isthe output format. So this time I didn'tput in much effort in terms of trying toreally prop engineer the system message.So as you can see there are two maintasks for this particular node which isthe first one being create an effectivevideo prompt to a prompt videogeneration model based on users inputwhich is great and then the second oneis to make sure that the output isseparated into two JSON objects which iswhat the next node is going to expectfrom this particular node. And the firstone being the video prompt itself whichis going to be in strings. And thesecond one is the image URL which is theimage that the video generation model isgoing to create a video based off. Andin order to fetch the image URL, we needto make sure that we're attaching theright tool for the agent to look at. Andin this case is a Google sheet attachtool. And what I want to do is write toget rows. And from the list is going tobe the same image to video block sheet.And we're going to pick the only sheetthat exists in that project, which issheet one. And there we go. Soessentially what I'm telling it is to goback to the system prompt again that isgoing to fetch this value from the lastrow of the attach Google sheet locked.All right. So we just want to name itjust for clarity. Google sheet lock.Okay, cool. So we're going to run thisand execute the step and see what theoutput is. And again, even though wehave already specified the output in thesystem prompt, we just want to make surethat we toggle on the output content asJSON just to make sure that it'soutputting it as two separate JSONobjects. And as you can see under thecontent here, there's the prompt stringsand the image URL strings which whichare the two expected parameters in thenext node. So the next what we want todo here is just a HTTP request node. Andagain, we're going to import curl here.Go back to waist speed and under modelsthis time what we want to do is we wantto check the category image to video andthere are a couple of options that wecan choose from but in this case we'regoing to choose the first one which isCance version one. All right cool uh andwe're going to toggle into the API docs.Copy the curl command which is the postmethod here. Go back and essentiallypaste the entire thing and it's going toconfigure everything here.Authentication we've set it uppreviously. So we're going to justchoose the same authentication here. Andfor that we can toggle off the headerpart because the authentication hasalready been included in thecredentials. And what we want to changehere the same thing we have coupleparameters that we can set that hasrelation to the type of videos and whatkind of requirements that's required.But what we want to do here is we'regoing to just change the image URL. Dragit to this value here. And under prom,we're going to replace that with theprom strings and also drag it, drop ithere. We can specify the duration. Ithink 5 seconds is good for now. Butyeah, bunch of other stuff that you canconfigure as well. And then we're goingto remake rename this to cens.And we're going to hit execute step.And there you go. The post request issuccessful. And as always, we want towaituntil the video is ready for us to get.Right? So, we're going to change this to15 seconds. I'm going to hit executestep. And as that's running, we're goingto introduce the get HTTP request node.See, that's get. And again, for this,we're going to go back to thedocumentation and copy the get curlcommand and just import curl. Paste theentire thing and it's going to beconfigured. And as usual, we're going toreplace this request ID with the ID thatwe got from the weight node earlier. SoI'm just going to paste it there. Andauthentication, same thing. We're goingto pick the same credentials. We'regoing to toggle off the headers here.And we're good to go. So as you can see,it's waited 15 seconds. And we're goingto try to get and the status iscompleted. So that's good. So 15 secondswas enough uh to get that. But just incase again, um that's not ready yet. Wewant to make sure that workflow does notbreak. So we're going to pick the ifnode creating an if loop. So we're goingto say that if the status is equal toI'm just going to copy and paste makesure that it's word for word the samecompleted then it's going to fall intothe true branch and it's going to go tothe next node. But in case it's notcompleted it's going to go into thefalse branch. It's going to wait another15 seconds. Right? I'm going to executea step. Actually it doesn't matterbecause it's going to fall into the truebranch. I'm going to reconnect it backto the get requests because in case it'snot ready yet, it's going to waitanother 15 seconds. You got to try toget it and it's going to wait another 50seconds and try to get it again untilit's ready. So, in this case, it'salready done. Uh, what we want to do isto just move on to the next node becauseit's true. And the next node that we'regoing to append here would be theTelegram node. And this is going to senda video node. Telegram send a video. Andagain, chat ID, you know, it can bedynamic or you can just hardcode it intothe thing. But in this case, because Ialready have it plugged in, I can justdrag the ID here. In terms of video,we're going to get it from the if node.Got the output right there. Going todrag it in here. Okay. And we're goingto hit execute step. All right. As youcan see, sending over some stuff on theTelegram. So, let's go to Telegram andcheck it out. There we go. As you cansee, there's a video of the cat jumpingthrough the hoops of rainbows andparachute opens and it lands safely.Cool. All right. Of course, a lot ofthings can be done again with theprompt. We could define what kind ofstyle we want it to be. This is a bitmore cartoonish. If we want it to behyperrealistic, that's possible as well.So, we just need to include all of thatin the system prompt. All right. I hopethat's a clear build of the image tovideo workflow. So, in the next section,you're going to practice building itfrom scratch yourself in the labs andI'll see you in the next one. And justvery quickly before we go, I just wantto point out that I'm building this inone single workflow or one singleworksheet. Um, but what you can do, youcan actually separate these twoworkflows into two separate worksheetsand it'll just make it much easier foryou to troubleshoot and iterate as yougo. So just in case if there's any errorand the workflow is bugging out orerroring out, you can actually zoom into any one of the workflows that arebugging out instead of looking under thehood for these two workflows at a go. Soif you separate it into two workflows,you're going to know which workflow isworking down and you could go into therelevant workflow and find out what'snot working within the notes. With that,I'll see you in the next section. In theprevious section, we talked about how wecan access way speed API to call on textto image or text to video generationmodel like V3. Now, obviously that's notthe only way to access V3. And perhapsone of the most straightforward way isto access it through the Google CloudPlatform itself. Now, the way you can dothat is to go tocloud.google.com/vertex-aiand go over to the documentation. So,Vert.Ex AI is a place where V3 is hostedon Google Cloud. And in thedocumentation, you can scroll down tothe full HTTP request with which you canpopulate the HTTP node to call on theAPI. Now, in order to get started, youcan actually go down to the simplifiedversion in the sample request. Let's goback to the workflow now and build asimple workflow where we can call on thetext to video generation model in V3.So, the first node that