in the docker ps command.And as you can see, the containers arerunning. So, let's go to a public IPaddress. And the way you can do that isto go to your AWS console and copy thepublic IPv4 address. And once you dothat, you can simply type it in with theport 5678 at the end.And there you go. That's your Nidentinstance. And as you can see, uh this isthe first time logging in. So there's nopersistent data of credentials. So I canjust type in any credentials just likethis andit's going to spin up the edit instance.As you can see, this is a dashboard thatyou would normally see on your endcloud. It's just announced it's hostedon an EC2 instance on AWS. Everythingelse works the same way. If you go intoyour demo workflow, the same template isgoing to spin up as a default demotemplate which is attached to Olama. Andagain, Olama was part of the package. Soit was downloaded and basically loadedup within the EC2 instance. Cool. So ifyou were to go back to your instanceright here,you can see the usage in the instancetab.And that was probably when we were doingthe git clone. But of course, as youmove on and operate the NDN environmentwithin the EC2's instance, you're goingto see the consumption data over here.Okay. So that's a straightforward way toshow you how you can quickly set up anEC2 instance and get your endenvironment connected and hosted onthere through Docker. And again, ifyou're not familiar with how EC2 andDocker works, we do have courses onthat. So you can go and check that outfor sure. And of course if you ratherjust skip all the hassle of not justsetting up the environment and theinfrastructure to run this uh but alsoat the same time maintaining it youcould just use any cloud. They do chargea monthly pricing but at the same timeyou do get a lot more convenience ifyou're just starting out with automatingthings through an end and you don't needto spend a lot of time worrying aboutall the other stuff in terms ofmaintenance of the infrastructure. Solet me know what you guys think and whatyou guys prefer. Otherwise I'll see youin the next section. Congratulations,you made it to the end of the course.Think back where we started at thebeginning of this course. Notes and subworkflows may have felt abstract. Nowyou've not only learned thefundamentals, you've actually builtintelligent productionready workflowsfrom scratch. [music]That's a huge step. Along the way,you've explored how to connect APIs andservices with HTTP request node andbuild AI powered agents that automatereal world tasks like [music] emailreplies, research, and even selectconversations on your behalf. You'vealso learned how to generate images andvideos directly from text or mediainputs and also use sub workflows toorganize complex systems into reusablemodular components. And you've alsolearned how to host NDN anywhere fromedit at cloud to docker or AWS EC2giving you the flexibility of your ownenvironment. We then move into a nonterritory [music] rag agents with pinecone back to databases enabling memoryand contacts in your automations.>> [music]>> You've also learned how to use MCPS inyour NDN workflows to scale and reusesome of the building blocks. And ofcourse, we've gone through the bestpractices in terms of error handling,retries, and leveraging the end templatemarketplace to accelerate your builds.[music] By now, you've seen howautomation goes beyond just saving time.It's about orchestrating systems,extending the reach of AI, and freeingyourself from repetitive work so you canfocus on higher value tasks. So, wheredo we go from here?>> [music]>> First, get building. The workflows we'vecovered are a strong foundation, but endis also limitless in its flexibility.[music]Try connecting new APIs, experiment withcustom nodes, and layer in newadditional agents. The more you explore,the more powerful your automationsbecome. Second, share and learn withothers. At CodeCloud, you're part of aglobal community of learners, engineers,and automation enthusiasts. [music]Ask questions, showcase your workflows,and draw inspiration from othersprojects. Collaboration is one of thebest ways to grow your skills. [music]And if you like to share feedback,ideas, or just to show me some of thecool stuff that you built, feel free toget in touch with me. I'd love to hearwhat you build with ended.Third, think about your own environment.Could you integrate end into your DevOpspipelines, replace manual reporting withAIdriven summaries, or deploy customersupport agents that scale yourbusinesses? [music] Whatever your roleis, automation is a lever that you canpull to create real impact. A finalthought, remember automation isn't aboutreplacing people. It's about augmentingwhat you do. By letting Editen handlethe repetitive, the mechanical, and the[music] time-conuming, you create morespace for creativity, strategy, andinnovation. So, keep experimenting andkeep building and keep pushingboundaries on what's possible with Na.Thank you for lending with me and withDocloud. I'm Maronei and I can't wait tosee what you build with that event.[music]So I want to run through the differencesbetween running your instance on endcloud versus the lab playgrounds that wehave on the code cloud course. Now thefirst thing you'll notice as you go intothe lab is that you still have toprovide your email and your first name,last name credentials as well as apassword in the instance. And don'tworry, this is not saved anywhere. Soyou don't actually have to save thecredential and the password somewhere.You can use different emails andpassword for each of these instances. Soonce that's filled in, you can hit next.And there's going to be a series ofonboarding questions here which youdon't need to fill. So you can hit getstarted. And in the same way for thepaid features information, you can justskip. And there you go. And now you'rein the admin dashboard that is verysimilar to the N9 cloud environment.However, there's still some nuances andsome differences as we go into theworkflow. So here what we're going to dois we're going to click start fromscratch. And the very first workflowthat you're going to build is the emailAI agent. And the first trigger to thatis a chat trigger. And I'm going tospeed through this because this is verysimilar to the workflow that we've done.But I want to just show you quickly thedifferences of using the codecloudkeyspace as well as the open AI API key.So if you're using the codecloudkeyspace, what you want to do when youselect your model, for example, in thiscase, I'm just going to select the openAI chat model. And what I want to do isto follow the instruction in the lefthand bar right here. And you see thatthere's a link to code key. I'm going tojust hit that URL. And I'm going to hitlaunch now. and it's going to lead me tothis dashboard right here. I'm going toclick start playground and there we go.So, this is the dashboard on CodeCloudKeyspace. And what I want to pick is theOpenAI GPT 4.1. And in this case, I'mgoing to just copy the API key here. I'mgoing to go back to my workflow. Andhere, I'm going to hit create credentialand I'm going to paste the same exactAPI key. I'm going to skip theorganization ID. And for the base URL, Iwant to make sure that I'm replacingthis with the base URL that I obtainedfrom the CL keyspace. Go back to my laband paste the base URL right here. Okay,so I'm going to hit save right now. Asyou can see, it says connection testedsuccessfully. However, there's a coupleof things I want to point out here. Cuzif you pick from list, as you can see,the list doesn't really match the knownmodels of GPT. This is because it's notreally working based on the UI that'sbeen built. So if you try to run itbased on the chat ID or chat model thatwe've selected, I'm just going to run ahello message here. It's going to go tothe AI agent, but it's going to errorout. So what you need to do is go intothe chat model and instead of pickingfrom list, you want to go by ID and assuggested from the instruction on theleft hand bar here, you want to copy theOpenAI/GPT-4.1.Just copy that and paste it all word forword. And let's do a test run again. Andthis time it should actually be able toaccess the appropriate model. So that'sif you're using the CodeCloud keyspaceAPI keys. Now what I want to point outis the difference between this and usingthe OpenAI API key is that it's muchmore straightforward when you use OpenAIAPI keys. So to show you the difference,what I'm going to do here is I'm goingto create another new credential and I'mgoing to call it OpenAI account too.This time I'm going to head over toplatform.openai.com.And what I want to do is head over toAPI key section. I'm going to create anew secret key in and then emailintegration. I'm going to hit createsecret key and I'm going to copy the APIkey and head back to my lab. I'm goingto paste the API key and leave the baseURL as is and I'm going to hit save. Sothere you go. So connection testedsuccessfully. And the difference isinstead of by ID, I can now just pickfrom the list and it should load up thecorrect list of models that I mightpossibly want to use. So for example, ifI choose GPT 4.1, it's just going to bethat. And we're going to run this nodeagain. And as you can see, it's callingthe correct model right here. Okay. Sothe next thing I want to point out iswhen you add your Gmail note on the nextworkflow or Google tool for that matterthe difference between doing that in ourlabs versus edit cloud is that on editcloud you often see when you create anew credential with Gmail that you canactually have a button which you cansign in directly using your Googleaccount if your browser happens to be aGoogle Chrome browser. However with thelabs what you need to do when you createa new credential is you actually need toconnect it with the oorthth method. Sowhat you want to do is you want to headover to console.cloud cloud.google.com.And the first thing you want to do iscreate a new project. And for the newproject, I'm going to name it in emailapp. All right. So, I'm going to leavethis as no organization. I'm going tohit create. And it's going to take acouple seconds to create the project.And once that's done, I'm going toselect the project. And as you can see,it says edit an email app project. Andthe very first thing I want to activateis I want to go to Gmail API. So whatI'm doing right now is I'm creating aproject because that's how Googlerecognizes each of these oath accessthat we're giving it. But the way thesecurity works is you need to enable theparticular tool that you want to usewithin the project. So in this case Iwant to use Gmail. So I want to makesure I enable the Gmail API. All right.Once that's enabled, I want to head overto OOTH consent screen. And right nowthere's no OOTH consent that's set up.So I'm going to just hit get started.And in this case, I'm going to have tocall it an app name as well. So I'm justgoing to say it is an emailapp. Okay. User support email. Going toput this.And we're going to select external. Andby the way, each of these steps isdocumented on the left hand side panelof the lab. So you don't have tomemorize any of these. But we're goingto go to next. And under contactinformation, just going to put my emailhere. And once you're done, just hitcontinue. and create. So, just before wego, I just want to go to audience and Iwant to add a test user here, which isan email that you're going to use tosend out basically the emails that youwant the agent to send out. So, in thiscase, it's maronei atcloud.com. We'regoing to save that. And lastly, we'realmost there. We're going to go to APIand services again, and this time we'regoing to go to credentials. And what wewant to do is to hit create credentialswith OOTH client ID. And applicationtype we want to choose web application.And under name you want to name itCanadian email oath client. And then[snorts] we're going to add theauthorized redirect URLs which we canobtain from our lab. So going back intothe lab here, you see that this is theOOTH redirect URL. and we're going tocopy this and we're going to head backand just fill this in and we're going tohit create. As you can see, we now havethe client ID and client secret to theapp that we just created. So, we'regoing to copy this and head back toclient ID. Paste it in. Client secret.Copy that. Paste in the client secret.And you'll see now that there is a signin with Google button that pops up. So,what you want to do is just hit that anda Google login pop-up will show. Andthen you just want to correctly selectthe email address. And you'll say thatGoogle hasn't verified this app. Butbecause you're the one who created it,you know it's safe. So we're just goingto hit continue. And we're going toselect all because we want to have theagent be able to do all these actionswith our Gmail. So we're going to hitcontinue now. And as you can see, itsays connection successful. And we'regood to go. So just wait a coupleseconds here within the labs and it'sjust going to load up. And there you go.I already have my credential set uphere. And we just want to run an executestep to show you that everything isworking. So in the workflow, you'll seethat we've chosen to define all of thisby the model. So we're going to let theAI agent define this. And we're going tostart chatting and say, "Hi, can yousend an email to codingcloud.comto just say hello?" All right. So we'regoing to hit this. So as you can see nowthe workflow has run and it's actuallysent an email to my Gmail. So let metake a look. And there you go. It sayshello mer just want to say hello bestregards. Okay. So obviously it's notvery sophisticated because actually inthe AI agent we didn't even specify anysystem prompt. So the whole point isjust to show you the main differencebetween running the environment on endcloud and within our playgroundsspecifically covering the part wherecode key is being used as well as whenyou're going to access any Google toolsGmail, Google Sheets and stuff likethat. You do need to go to your Googlecloud console to set up the project, theapp, and the ooth clients in order toaccess Google services with theworkflow. And as you explore Nit in thecourse, you're going to realize thatthere's going to be some differencesbetween running edit cloud and editwithin your own self-hosted environment.For example, the availability ofcommunity notes, supported versions, anda few other features that might only beavailable on edit cloud. So if you'refacing any issues any part of thatbuild, just keep in mind that it mightbe because you're using a self-hostedversion or a lab hosted version fromCodeCloud. And it's not necessarily alimiting issue. There's always aworkaround for that. It's just somethingto keep in mind about