the particular Googlesheet that we're referring to when wetold it that there's an attached tool toit. Now, going back to the workflow,we're going to run this particular nodehere based on the configuration that wefilled it. You can see based on the datathat came from perplexityis checking it against the news logwhich in this case is an empty sheet. Sothere's no headlines to be checkedagainst but still doing that. Andfinally the output is here's theformatted AI news which is Julius AI hassuccessfully raised 10 million fundinground amongst other things. In thiscase, the next node that we want tointroduce is the email node becauseright now all the output lives withinthe workflow. Just like in the previoussection, we're going to attach a Gmailnode. But in this case, we're going tostill choose the send a message action.But the difference, as you can see, isthat we're not attaching the Gmail as atool for the checking agent to leverageon. Now, why is that? And what's thedifference between attaching Gmail as asa tool versus Gmail as a subsequent nodeto the AI agent node? And the differenceis that when we attach the Gmail tool toan AI agent note, the AI agent has theliberty to choose whether or not toleverage the tool or use the tool. Inscenarios where AI agent hallucinates,they might actually use the tool whenthey don't need to. They might not usethe tool when they actually need to.Having Gmail note as a note that ischained up to the workflow like thisensures that any then runs through thenote regardless of what the AI agentthinks. In this case, we make sure thatthe note is run no matter what. And thisis extremely useful when we're sure thateach time of the day we want to receivean AI news output into our Gmail becausea note has to be run every time aworkflow is run. It is just bestpractice to chain it up as part of theworkflow instead of connecting it to theAI agent as part of the tools that itmay or may not use. Now, let's go backto the Gmail node. And you can see thatin terms of configuration, there's someslight differences between a Gmail nodethat is chained up to the workflowversus a Gmail tool that is attached tothe AI agent. You now don't have theoption to let the AI choose to definethe recipient, the subject, and themessage. you actually have to hardcodeit into the node. And I use the wordhardcode, but actually you're simplydragging the variable and dropping itinto the field. The fields appear to bethe same as when you have a Gmail nodeattached to your AI agent. So, we'regoing to leave it as that. But here'swhere it gets a little different. So therecipient that you want the output ofthe Gmail to be sent to should beconsistent because you want this to be adaily operation sent to the same set ofemail addresses. So in this case I'mgoing to put my email and under thesubject I'm going to put daily AI newsdigest.And this doesn't need to change becauseI know what it is. And email typebecause it's all going to be text. I'mgoing to choose text and the message isactually from the content here. And asyou can see the content itself, it sayshere is formatted AI news. So this isnot ideal in the way that I want toreceive the summary. So we can actuallyprompt this a little bit better. So oncewe're done with this, let's go back tothe news checking agent and under theuser prompt and we blow it up. Let's addan output format rule output in textonly and start thenewsdaily news summary with here is today'sAI development newstoday is and I'm going to just track thetoday variable and drop it here. So, Iwanted to start this way so that itmakes sense. Every time I open up theemail, it's going to say, "Here'stoday's AI development news. Today isthat particular day." So, I know thatI'm getting the latest news from theheadlines. Okay, now that's done. As youcan see, when I make any changes, it'sgoing to turn the node yellow. So, we'regoing to run it one time and let's seewhat the output now is. Here's today AIdevelopment news. Today is 7th, sorry,today is 29th of July, 2025. And thenthe news. So, okay, that's the formatthat I want it to be. I'm going to openthat up again and pin it so that I don'thave to rerun it every time. And withinthe Gmail, this is the content that Iwant to drag into the message field. So,that's good. And remember in theprevious sections, we know that it'sgoing to automatically come with anadded attribution within the email. Sowhat we want to do is just click addoption and it toggle off the appendattribution and then we're going to tryto execute step. As you can see therehas been some actions and then email hasbeen sent. So let's go to our emailinbox and see what we've received. Sothis is the email that I've received andit says here's today's AI developmentnews. Today is this date. Of course thisformatting is not ideal. You can go intothe prom engineering again and try toformat it in a more readable way, butessentially in terms of formatting, it'smuch easier to read now. And of course,these are the news, the headlines,and if you push it to production, you'regoing to be receiving these emails dayin day out and keeping yourself updatedwith the latest AI development news.Going back to the workflow because we'renot quite done yet. Even though we'renow receiving the daily news update andI'm going to pin this as well is thatremember the AI news log that we'veintroduced here. We want to make surethat whatever news that have beenresearched in the past 24 hours has beenlogged into the sheet. That way the verynext day the agent or the news checkingagent can then check the log and makesure that the headlines are not repeatedagain. and the agent will always bechecking against past news to make surethat it's not repeated. So in this case,what we want to do is we want tointroduce a Google sheet node. Click onGoogle sheet. As you can see, there area couple actions that we can do withGoogle sheet. And what we want to dohere is to choose an append row insheet. And the reason why we chooseappend row in sheet is because we wantto add new information on an existingsheet. So we've got the Google Sheetsaccount connected already as usual aswhat we've covered in the past sectionand under resource we want to access thesheet within the document and theoperation we want to do is to appendrows or append new information. Nowunder document what we want to choose isthe past AI news. So just type in thetitle and you can choose that. Thealternative is actually you can link itby typing in or copy and pasting in theURL or the ID of the document. And onceyou've typed that in, you can thenchoose the list of sheet. And again, wehave only one sheet. So the sheet sheetone and once you've done that, you'll beable to see the columns that now existwithin that particular sheet. And withinthe sheet that we've created right now,it's completely blank because there areno headlines. They've been logged in. Wehave two columns, which is date andheadlines. And if you go back to theworkflow,there's the date column and there's aheadlines column. So now what we do iswe want to populate this particular rowsin under these particular columns with aspecific data. So in this case, we wantto choose under variables and contextthe today variable and drag that anddrop it under date. So that way it'sgoing to always populate the date columnwith the value of today's date. Andunder headlines, what we want to do iswe want to choose under the newschecking agent the output of thecontent. And now as you can see when youdrag variables from other nodes, youdon't necessarily always have to drag itfrom the previous or the immediateprevious nodes. You can drag it fromnodes that were from previous instancesin the chain. So in this case, I'm goingto drag the content variable from a newschecking agent and just drop it into theheadlines.Now with that done, I'm going to try theexecute step to see what it does. And asyou can see, it's telling you that it'sadded the date component or rathertoday's date into the date column andheadlines into the headlines column. Andof course, the way the logic works isit's going to pick the topmost row thatis unpopulated within the sheet. So it'salways going to pick the next availablerows as you go. So now that that's done,we've ensured that there is some form ofloop in terms of the way the workflowchecks for new headlines. And now withthe workflow, we've created a form of aloop where the perplexity agent everyday would go out and search for thelatest information on AI development anda news checking agent checks againstpast logs of the headlines to make surethat the information is not repeatedbefore sending it into your Gmail. Allof that gets stored within a Googlesheet every day. And then the next day,the same operation is going to happenagain. The research agent is going to goout into the internet and check the mostrecent and relevant news for you. Andthen we also have the agent checkingthat against the Google sheet togetherwith the news that were locked in theprevious days before sending it out intoyour Gmail. So that way you can be surethat the headlines that you receiveevery day are really the most relevantand the most recent news that you canget. There are many other options oftools that you can use along thisworkflow. Perplexity is just one of theoptions even though in my opinion it'sone of the most advanced out there whenit comes to search. OpenAI can bereplaced with any other LLMs as well.And you can replace a Gmail with aTelegram node or Slack node or any otherplatforms that you spend your most timeon. In any case, I hope this sectionprovides a good understanding of how ageneral logging mechanism of theworkflow can possibly work. So that'sthe end of the section and I'll see youin the labs. In this section, we'regoing to have a little bit of fun. Sosince we now know how to create an AIagent on end and how to connected to ourSlack accounts, we're going to try tosee if we can have the AI agent fullytake over our profile and respond on ourbehalf, aka do our job for us. So inthis case, this is the same workflowthat we've built in the past section.The first thing we need to do to havethe AI agent respond on our behalf is togo to our Slack API and reconfigure someof the OOTH permissions.And what we want to do here is simply godown to the scope section. And in thepast section, we filled up all the bottoken scopes as required. But in thiscase, we're going to scroll down to theuser token scopes and fill it up withthe required scopes. And these are thelist of required scopes that aretypically recommended in order for it tofunction well. So as you can see we havechannels history to read the channelsjust in case we want to respond andinteract uh within the channel and weobviously we have the channels read chatright groups history as well as someread and history permissions and thisall depends if you want the bot torespond on your behalf in a channel in adirect message or in a group message.So once you're done adding all the new Oscope under the the user token scopes,what you need to do would be toreinstall the app. There will be anotification popup that comes up here.I'm just going to show you right here.So if I were to addlet's say an admin apps read. What willhappen is it's going to ask me torestore my app over here.So just go ahead and do that and you'regood to go.And just before we go under the bottoken scopes, you do need to add onemore permission which is essential whichis the chat write.customize.And this just allows the bot to sendmessages on your behalf.All right. So once you're done, you wantto copy the user o token and go back toyour n workflow.And here you're going to create a newcredential which I've done here.But essentially what you need to do justdo the same thing. pick access token andpaste the user O token here.I'm not going to click on save becauseI've already created one, but it's thesame exact process as we've done in theprevious section. And once you're donewith that, you want to toggle over tothe event subscriptions. And what youwant to do is just unfollow thesubscribe to events on behalf of users.In this case, also add these four eventsubscriptions, which is messagechannels, message.groups, message, andmessage.mppim. This just covers most ofthe use cases that you might need. Andif you want to know a little bit moreabout the permissions and how it allworks, I encourage you to go into theSlack documentation and to check it outyourself.But now I'm going to go back to our endworkflow and reconfigure some of thesenodes. So in the first trigger node,previously we have the bot/ app mention.Now I want to add on just any event asone of the event triggers. The reasonfor that is I want to make sure that I'mcapturing direct messages when my teammembers are chatting with me. And I alsotoggled on the watch o workspace. Thereason for that is again I don't want tobe just watching a single channel or asingle chat. So when I toggle this onany message received will constitute atrigger event which would then run theworkflow. And scrolling down underoptions what I want to do is also addthe username or ids to ignore.In this case, I'm going to fetch my ownID to ignore my own messages becauseright now how it works is it's going totrigger on any event, which means itwill also include any messages that havesent to any channels as a trigger event.So, how do I get the user ID?Well, you can get your user ID from yourSlack channel by just simply clicking onprofileand clicking on the three dots here. Andyou're going to be able to copy themember ID. So that's the ID and you cango back to your NDN workflow to thetrigger nodeand essentially paste the ID under theexpression for the username or ID stringignore.Cool. For this demo, I've created afictitious workspace. I've added one ofmy colleague Michael Forester into thechannel. And obviously this is not thereal Michael. This is just a profilethat I've created. And again, as you cansee, this is just a demo workspace. AndI'm even on a free account on the lefthand side. You can see that it's 23 daysleft on the trial.And what I've done was I created anotheraccount as a fake Michael Forester. Andit says Michael F, which is me.It says Michael F, which is thisaccount. And the left hand side, you seethis is my account. And the reason whyI'm setting up these two accounts is sothat I can show you how it all workswhen my team member chats with me on adirect message. So now I'm going to tryto complete the reconfiguration of theentire uh workflow. And what I'm goingto do here is go into the agent node andeverything stays the same with theexception that I've added a systemmessage here. So essentially what I'mtelling the agent is that you aremaronei a team member at corkcloud andyour job is to impose a maronei as wellas you can and respond to his teammembers message on the behalf soundfriendly and natural in a typical techworking environment. So as you can seeis a pretty broad system message. Um,you can obviously prompt this much muchbetter, but I'm going to just start withthat.But one more thing that I'm going to dois I'm going to go to a chat model andI'm going to just toggle this to GPT5because it just came out.And GP5 in my experience has been greatat responding to complex queries um andusing tools when required.So I'm going to leave it as that. Thesimple memory is still attached.And on the last note, which is a sendmessage note, I made two changes here.And the first one is, as you can see,the channel ID, I made it into dynamicID. It's showing an error here right nowbecause it doesn't have any datapopulated just yet. But essentially, Iwant to make sure that this is going tobe dynamic because the workflow now istriggered by any events watching theentire workspace. So, it's notnecessarily going to be restricted toone single channel. So it could be adirect message, it can be a groupmessage as well as a channel message. SoI just want to be able to dynamicallyreply to that specific channel where I'minteracting with people on.And the second thing that I'm going tochange is under option, I'm going to saysend as user. I'm going to put in myusername here which is Mark. And that'sit.Okay. So I'm going to hit executeworkflow here.As you can see, it's waiting for atrigger event. So, I'm just going to goback to our Slack app.In this case, I'm going to use theMichael Porser account here to chat withme. So, I'm going to say, "Hey, Marone."All right. So, let's go back to theworkflow. As you can see, it's getting atrigger. It's hidden the AI agent andit's responding to my message. So, let'ssee what kind of message or responsethat I'm receiving back. It says, "Hey,what's up? Need an update on anythingAWS/resouror is there something that can helpunblock?" All right, sounds prettyhelpful. And I think it threw this inbecause I said, you know, pretend to besomebody in CodeCloud. So, CodeCloud'sassociated with cloud technologies, etc.So, it's probably just throwing that in.Okay. So, I'm going to go back to theworkflow. I'm going to hit executeworkflow again. So that it's now waitingfor my trigger.And using Michael's profile, I'm goingto type.How was your weekend? And I'm just goingto stay social. Not going to talk aboutanything about work. So there you go.And it's responding pretty good. Kept itlow-key. Got some rest. Did a bit ofplanning over the week. I also sketchedout a couple of tweaks for the AWS andthe zero pipeline that I'll share afterthe stand up. Cool. All right. Um, it'sadding it own flare. So, not sure aboutthat. Uh, probably need to work on