Imagine having a personal hacker that you can WhatsApp 24/7 and it instantly does what you ask. For example, the other day I was in a coffee shop and I wanted to find CCTV cameras around me. All I had to do is simply pick up my phone and message my personal AI hacker. Couple of seconds later, I got a list of cameras that I can view directly within my phone. This is Zate from Zecurity and in this video I'm going to show you how to set this up step by step using OpenClaw and Kali Linux. So this is going to be a juicy video. If you want to jump to a specific part, just use this timestamps below. But before we jump in, if you want us to make more videos like this, please help us grow by simply liking the video and sharing it with friends and on social media. And if you're interested in ethical hacking and cyber security in general, then make sure you subscribe and hit the bell so you get notified every time we publish new videos like this. Now, chances are you've already heard about Open Claw because people can't stop talking about it. And for a reason, it's a really useful framework that you can install on a computer and then you'll be able to get AI to control that computer. And the best part is you can communicate with it using any messaging app using WhatsApp, Telegram or whatever you like. Let me explain. Traditionally, we're used to chat to AI agents. So, we ask it a question, it goes ahead, uses its knowledge or uses search and answers our question. But what if we connect this AI model or brain to a computer? it'll have access to the applications installed on this computer such as the terminal and the web browser. In this case, instead of simply asking the AI a question, wait for the answer, and then take the actions ourselves, we can give the AI a task. The AI is going to use its knowledge to come up with the answer or the steps to achieve the goal. and then it's going to deploy agents to use the computer to use the terminal or the browser or any other tools to achieve the goal that we asked it. Now, in order to link AI to agents to a computer, we need a framework. And previously in the hacking master class, I covered several types of frameworks, but what we're going to cover today is Open Claw. So, we're going to be installing OpenClaw on the computer that we want to give it the ability to use. And instead of installing it on a normal computer like what most people do because they want to use it for normal use since we are hackers, we're going to install it on a Kali Linux machine. Therefore, it's not only going to have access to a terminal and a web browser. It's actually going to have access to all of the other tools that Kali has access to, such as NMAP, Metasloit, the Harvester, and the list goes on. You can simply ask it to go ahead and scan the network or generate back doors for you or perform OSEN tasks or anything else that you might want. And I'm going to show you how to do that later on once we install it. Now, you can install it, like I said, on any computer, whether it's personal or on the cloud. But I'm going to choose to install it on the cloud because it's going to be always on. I'll always be able to use it whenever I want. It's going to be more secure because it's isolated from my computer. So this framework is not going to have access to my own personal data, photos, documents, and so on. Now, you can follow the steps that I'm going to show you with any cloud provider. You can even follow them to install it on your own computer locally. But I'm going to choose to go with Hostinger because I can start a Kali machine instantly and because their pricing is very reasonable and guaranteed. So you can actually do this for free with Amazon. But as you can see, the free server only gives you 2 GB of memory, which is very low to run Kali and Open Claw and use them properly without running out of memory. You can install it on a YUbuntu machine, but then the price will significantly increase because you will be charged on the usage. So you'll be paying about $60 a month or so depending on your usage. However, if we go with Hostinger/Zecurity, you'll see that you can start from $5 per month, and that's going to get you double the amount of memory that you would get with the free Amazon tier. But I'm actually going to go for the second one, the KVM2, because I'm going to get 8 GB of memory. It's only going to cost me $7 a month, and it's going to be enough to run Cali with OpenClaw with the tools that I want to use without running out of memory. So, it really depends on your usage in here. Minimum KVM one. I'm going to go with the two. And if you're going to use it heavily, then you might want to go with the four or the eight in here. So, we're going to choose this plan, and I'll show you how to get a further 10% discount on top of this. So, right here, you can change the period. Obviously, you'll get the highest discount if you keep it on the 24 months. I'm going to change it to the 12 months. And then, we're going to click on have a coupon. Put Z security. and you will see that we're going to get a further 10% discount. Now that we're happy, we're going to scroll down and select the operating system that we want to run. And one of the reasons I'm choosing Hostinger is the fact that I can simply click on Kali Linux to launch a Kali Linux machine on the cloud. As you can see, as easy as this with simply a few clicks. Click continue and it's going to take you to the checkout page. If you're not signed in, it's going to ask you to either sign in or sign up. I'm already signed up. I'm simply going to click continue. It's going to take me to the payment. And once the payment is done, you will be redirected to the final stage where you have to set up a password for the root account. Just make sure you choose a strong password. And we're also going to set up an SSH key because that is more secure. All we have to do is click select key, click add new SSH key, and it's going to give you the command that you need to run in your command prompt or terminal. So, you want to copy this, and if you're on Linux or MacOSS, all you have to do is look for terminal. If you're running on Windows, open up the command prompt and paste the command that we just copied, hit enter, and it's going to ask you to choose a name for the key file. You can call it anything you want. I like to use meaningful names. So, I'm going to choose Cali open claw. Hit enter. And it's going to ask you to set up a passphrase or a password for this key. You can leave it empty for no passphrase. I'm actually going to set up one. And you're going to have to repeat it. And as you can see, we have two files now. The first one is our private key. You should never share this with anybody. We're going to use this to authenticate with our cloud server. And the second one is the public key. So we [snorts] need to install this on the cloud server so that it can identify us. We're simply going to use the cat command followed by the file name which is kali openclaw.pop for public. Hit enter. And you have the contents in here. And we're simply going to copy the content. Rightclick and copy. And we're going to go back to hostinger. Paste the public key so that it goes ahead and automatically installs it for us. And it can call it anything in here. Again, we're gonna call it Kali opening claw. We're gonna save and finish. And now it's creating our Kali machine on the cloud and installing the public key on it. So then we can control that machine from this computer remotely with my private key that is only stored on this machine, which makes it a lot more secure. And while you're waiting, this is a great time to go ahead and smash that like button and share the videos with friends and on your social media, guys. That really helps us grow and helps push this video more, which would motivate us to make more videos like this. And perfect. As you can see, it's telling us that we are ready. Our machine is ready to be used. You can log into it with SSH using this command, but we're going to use a different command because we want to log in with our key, like I said. And you can simply click on managevps in here in order to manage this machine on the cloud. But we're going to go ahead and manage it and use it using the terminal and simply run the same command that I'm going to run now in order to log in. SSH, which is the application that we're going to use to control our computer on the cloud remotely from this current computer. And we're going to use the -ash i option to specify the key that we created in the previous step. And if you remember, I called the key cali_openclaw. And remember, I'm not doing pub because I am using the private key. This is the key that I'm supposed to keep a secret, keep it installed on this computer. And finally, we have to specify the username that we want to log in as. And I want to login as root because that's the user with the highest privileges. And it's at the IP of the Cali machine that I just created. If we hit enter, you'll see that it's asking us if we want to trust this. We're going to say yes. It's going to ask us for the passphrase that we set up when we created the machine. Type it in here. You're not going to see the characters. That's just a security feature so that nobody can see the password you're typing. And if you hit enter, as you can see, I am logged in to my Cali machine on my server on the cloud that exists on Hostinger. Congrats. Now you have your own Cali machine with all of its tools installed on the cloud. So, it's going to be always on. it's going to be always available and you can go ahead and use it without worrying about port forwarding and your services and fishing pages and all of that are going to be accessible from anywhere in the world. So now we can go ahead and install openclaw. But first before we do that, let's disable password login on SSH. This way, nobody would be able to control this computer on the cloud without the private key that we only have locally stored on our own computer. And we can do that by simply modifying one setting in one file. So, we're going to use the nano command, which is a terminalbased text editor to modify a file. And the file exists in etc. SSH ssh config. d50cloudinit.com and you'll see we're simply modifying one option which is very self-explanatory as you can see this option allows password authentication and we want to simply set it to no so that nobody can log to this computer even if they know the password so that the only way to log in is using the key just like what we did now to save this we're going to do ctrl x and it's going to tell us do we want to save the modification Press Y and hit enter. And that is saved. But the changes will not take effect until we restart the service. We're going to use the service command to restart the service. That is called SSH. And we want to restart it. Hit enter. And that's the service restarted. So if I exit and I'm back at my MacBook Pro computer. And if I try to log in without the key. So, if I remove the I argument and hit enter, you'll see that I'll get a permission denied. Which means that if there are hackers or bots out there trying to guess the password or even if they know the password, they will never be able to log in. The only way to log in is using this key in here, which will always be stored locally on my computer. Now, this is just a security enhancement. It's optional. You don't have to do it, but I highly recommend it. So now let's log back in and put in the key and put in the passphrase and we're back inside the Cali machine. I'm simply going to clear the screen and the next step now that we have the Cali machine installed and configured nicely to go ahead and install open claw the agentic AI framework on it so that we can go ahead and control this Cali machine and we'll be able to simply communicate with it through the chat or even through WhatsApp and any other application. Now, installing OpenClaw is actually really, really easy. If we go ahead to their website and scroll down, you'll see that you can install it with a single command. Usually, this is all you need and it installs all of the needed software, but since the latest update, this is actually broken. Therefore, we're going to go to their GitHub repository in here, and we're simply going to scroll down and use the recommended installation method. And as you can see, this is the first command that we're going to need to run, which uses the npm package manager to add the open claw repo first. So, we're going to go to our terminal, paste the command, hit enter, and as you can see, because we don't have the npm package manager already installed, it's asking us if we want to install it. So, all you have to do is type y, hit enter, and it's going to go ahead and install the package manager for you. Hit enter to confirm that you want to go ahead with it. And perfect. Now that the package manager is installed, we can go ahead and run the first command that was suggested to us, which is to add the open claw repo. We're going to hit enter. And again, you want to give this a second. And perfect. Now that this has completed with no errors, only warnings, we can clear the screen. And we can go ahead and get this second command to actually go ahead and install the gateway, the Damon, and everything else that we need. So, we're simply going to copy it, come back to our terminal, and paste. Hit enter. And perfect. Right now, what you see is the onboarding wizard. So, this is where you're going to set up all of your settings. So, the first thing that it is telling us that this is powerful and risky, obviously, because this agent is going to have control over this whole computer. So, you have to say yes to this, and we're going to say yes. And then it's asking us to choose the onboarding mode. You can go with quick start if you want to go ahead and configure it later, or you can go manual, which is what we're going to do now because we want to set up everything right now. Next, it's going to ask you about the gateway. So, you can have it available remotely, but to make it more secure, we're going to keep it local only. Next, it's asking us for the workspace directory. We're going to keep it to the default. this workspace right here. And next, it's asking us for the model provider. So, [snorts] we are at the stage that we have OpenClaw installed and we need to link this guy to a brain. So, it can think because this is a framework that can go ahead and deploy agents to use the operating system, but it doesn't have a brain and it's only as smart as the brain that we link it to. And as you can see, you can basically link it to any AI model that you can think of. You can even run it with local AI models. And I'll be covering that in the hacking master class in the next classes. So, make sure you join if you are interested in that. But in this class, we're going to go ahead and link it to a frontier AI model. So, you can choose anything that you want. If you prefer OpenAI, Antropic, or whatever you prefer. I'm actually going to go ahead and use Open Router as a provider because the nice thing about Open Router, if you don't know it, it gives us access to hundreds of models. As you can see, as of today, there is 627 AI models in here. And they basically have all of the models from all of the companies. They have the Google models, the Chat GPTs, anything you can think of. And you'll be able to access all of these using one API key or one authentication method. All you have to do is simply sign up with these guys. I'm already signed up. Signing up is obviously very easy. You just click register, go in here, click on keys and you want to create an API key. This is how the framework is going to authenticate with the account in here. Click on create key and then give the key a name. I like to use meaningful names. So I'm going to call it open claw so I can track how much I'm going to spend through this. I'm going to click create to create it. And I'm going to copy the API key and paste it in here. Hit enter. And now it's going to ask us to use the AI model that we want to use. As you can see, we have access to hundreds of AI models. So you can scroll down and look for the free AI models. For example, we have this AI model which is completely free and it will not charge you anything. Or you can go for a paid AI model or you can select auto which will let open router choose the best AI model based on the question or the task that you send it. But I really don't recommend using free AI models with this framework because we actually needed to be kind of smart enough to be able to use these tools. This guy is only as good as the brain that you link it to. If you link it to a dumb brain, it's going to be dumb. And if you link it to a smart brain, it's going to be pretty smart. And a lot of these free models have aggressive rate limiting. Therefore, if you can afford it, the best option is to go with the Oppus Claude. It is the smartest AI model when it comes to agentic workflows like what we're going to do. But if you want to save a bit of money, you can go with the Google Gemini 3 Pro. Or if you want to save even more money, you can go with the Chemi 2.5. And you can actually see the difference in pricing in here. So you'll see the Chemi 2.5 is basically almost free. it is very very cheap per million token whereas the Google is a lot more expensive than that and then if you go to the anthropic it is the most expensive so like I said you have the option you can use the free deepseek as I showed you earlier or you can choose any of these options that's the nice thing about open router it gives you access to so many AI models and if you're going to choose to use one of the paid AI models then you will have to put in some credits in your account so all you have to do is go in here, click on credits, click add credits, and then select the amount that you want to add. As you can see, I already have credits in here. But if you choose to go with the free AI models, then you will not need to add any credits. You can use it for free. I'm going to choose Claude 4.6 Opus because that is, in my opinion, the best model out there when it comes to agentic workflows. Next, we're going to select the port for the gateway. This is not really important because we're not going to be accessing the gateway through the web interface, but I still like to change it to something that is not the default. So, we're going to set it to 1515. Hit enter. And we're going to keep the gateway bind to the loop back so that it is not accessible from anywhere except the local machine. That's fine because we're going to control it through our messaging apps from our phone or through the terminal. Next, it's asking us about the gateway authentication. You can use a password or a token. Token is more secure, so we're going to keep it with token. And then it's going to ask us if we want to use tail scale. So, I'm going to keep this off because we're not going to be using the web interface anyway. And we're only going to be using this machine for hacking. We're installing Cali on it and Cali runs on root. But if you want me to show you how to set this up for maximum security, then let me know in the comments and I'll make a full video on that. So, I'm going to keep this as off. And next, it's asking us for the gateway token. We're going to keep it blank. So, it automatically generates it. And now, we are at the stage where we need to configure the channels. And this is one of the really cool features that everybody was raging about because you'll be able to use any app, for example, Telegram, WhatsApp, Discord, or any other app to message it like a friend, and it's going to go ahead and execute the tasks that you give it. If I was going to set this for maximum security, I would use either Matrix or Signal, but Signal requires a SIM card and Matrix requires a good bit of manual work. WhatsApp is also really cool, but you need a SIM card for that. Otherwise, it'll use your own WhatsApp account, which I highly don't recommend. And that's why we're going to go with Telegram because it actually uses a Telegram bot. We're going to click yes. We want to configure the channels. and we're gonna hit enter again to configure the Telegram channel. And it's going to give you the steps that you need to do on your Telegram app to link it to OpenClaw. So, I have Telegram in here on my phone. It's telling us to look for the bot father. Click on the plus in here on the top and look for bot father. This one right here. Click start. And you want to run forward slash newbot to create a new bot. Hit send and it's going to ask you what do you want to call this new bot. I'm going to call it Neo because it's going to be a hacker. And next it's asking us for a username for this bot. Now this username needs to be unique. So I'm going to say Neo one and it needs to end with bot. So we're going to do underscorebot. And I'm pretty sure this would be taken. So I'm just going to add some numbers to the end. And perfect. It's telling us that the bot has been set up and it's giving us the token right here which we will need to give to Clawbot in here to be able to communicate with us through Telegram. Hit enter and perfect. As you can see, it's telling us that Telegram is configured now. So now you can go ahead and set up other channels if you want to be able to also communicate with it through WhatsApp or my message signal and the list goes on as you can see. But if you're finished, you can simply go to the finished and hit enter. Next, it's asking us to configure the DM access policies. This is very important because right now we created a bot that exists on the internet that anybody can message. I don't like that. I'm going to say I want to configure it right now. I'm going to say yes. And I'm going to set that to an allow list. This way, the bot will ignore everybody that messages it, and it'll only respond to my own messages. And now, it's going to ask for the username or the user ID that it should only communicate with. So, we're going to need to go back to Telegram. And this time, we're going to need to speak to a different bot. So, I'm going to click on the new message in here, and we want to look for user info bot right here. Click start and perfect. As you can see, it's giving us the ID right here. And all you have to do is simply again copy that and input it in here. Hit enter. And perfect. Now, Clawbot is only going to respond to our Telegram account. Next, it's going to ask us if we want to install Skills, and we're going to talk about that in a second. So, for now, I'm going to say no. And finally, we want to enable all of the hooks in here. So, you want to highlight it and press space to select it as you can see in here. And once you're happy, you want to hit enter to go to the final stage. We're going to keep the gateway service to the default node. We're going to hit enter. It's going to go ahead and try to start the gateway. And perfect. Right now, OpenClaw is finally installed on our Kali machine. So you can speak to it through the terminal UI or through the web UI. Now, we're always going to be using the terminal UI. We disabled the web UI because first of all, we're hackers and we use the terminal. And the terminal is actually more efficient and more secure. And there is nothing that you can do in the web UI that you cannot do in the terminal. And finally, once we configure it anyway, we're going to be mainly communicating with it through Telegram, not through the terminal or anything else. So, we're going to hit enter to hatch it in the terminal. [snorts] And as you can see, it automatically sends a message to it saying, "Wake up, my friend." So, this is literally the first word you're speaking to your AI assistant. As you can see, we are getting a response back saying, "Hey, I just came online, fresh out of the box, obviously, no memories, no name, nothing." So, you can think of it as a very smart baby. It does still doesn't have a name and it doesn't have any skills. So this stage is going to be very very important as we're going to teach it how to assist us what we want it to do and we're going to give it skills so that it can efficiently assist us. Take time in writing this first prompt that you're going to send it. Open claw is known for having a really good memory management. So it's going to remember what you say and it's going to keep it in mind for future tasks. So first of all I'm saying hello to it. I want to be polite and I want to be nice to it. It's going to be my nice hacker assistant. I'm giving it my hacker name Zuz and I'm giving it its hacker name Neo. And I'm increasing its confidence by telling it that you're the best hacker that has ever existed in the world. And it's very important to tell it the kind of infrastructure that it has access to. So we're telling it that you have access to a Kali machine in the cloud. This is very important. So it's going to know that it has access to all of the Cali machine tools and that it is on the cloud and therefore it can be reachable from anywhere in the internet if we ask it to deploy a server a fishing page and so on. Now this is very important before I explain to it how I