Jensen Wong said just the other day thatevery company needs an open clawstrategy. I mean, he's calling it thenew computer, but how do you actuallywire this thing up so it holds up in thereal world? So, I sat down with myfriend Moritz and we went through theexact setup that takes you from installto production. This is a super tactical,saucy episode, the clearest way tounderstand all these concepts. How tostructure OpenClaw versus ClaudeCo-work. How to set up personalizationso it sounds like you. How to makememory actually persist and improve overtime. How to configure models andfallback so it stays reliable. How torun heartbeat.md so nothing breaks inthe background. How to lock downsecurity so you can trust it with yourbusiness. And then what are differentuse cases like how do I use this thingto come up with ideas for me and createcontent that doesn't look like AI slop.This is the most comprehensive one-hourmaster class on how to go from I want toinstall OpenClaw to I've got this thingrunning and it's a digital employeethat's working for me.>> Moritz creme on the startup ideas podMoritz by the end of this episode whatare people going to get out of it? So,if you're someone that has heard aboutOpenClaw, maybe you even tried settingit up, but didn't see the value and itdidn't work very well for you, by theend of this episode, you will have a10-step guide to 10x your OpenC and makeit actually useful. You'll learn how toset it up the right way, how to tweak itand understand how it works under thehood so that it becomes basically like asuperhuman employee.And at the end I will also share some ofthe top use cases and systems I havebuilt with my open clone.>> So basically how people are using it,how you're using it in the wild. I knowyou're you've got you're out there,you've got these digital employees doingthings. You're going to show us how touse it. You're going to explain theseconcepts clearly. You're going to takepeople through all of it. Morates,you're an absolute angel. Let's getright into it.>> All right. Awesome. So, um I thought tostart this out, let's just go over thebasics and um talk about first what evenis OpenClaw. Uh for people that may havenot heard about it, um basicallyOpenClawum is a an agent, a personal agent thatcan do things for you. It uh remembersthings and gets better over time. It'sproactive and it can actually automatethings for you. Um, it also has accessto built-in functionalities, tools, andskills. Um, and you can also bring itinto any chat tool basically. So, it'squite flexible in that sense. Um, and soit's kind of the first really personalagent um, that exists and also currentlyI would say it's the closest to what wehave of a a truly autonomous agent.So um yeah now you might be asking umokay but how is it actually differentfrom chat GBT and cloud code right um soin chat GBT basically if you um think ofthis as you communicating with with chatGBTum what's always first thing first thingyou'll notice is like it's living in thecloud right so you're kind of alwayscommunicating with this thing in thecloud uh this intelligence in the cloud.Now chat GPT does have um like thingsbuilt into it that they've built into itover time. In the beginning it was kindof just this like this chat intelligencething. Um and then they've added memoryover time. They've added uh some tooluse over time like web search and so on.Um but yeah, you can like fundamentallythink of Chad GBT as uh just just achat, right? Um okay. So what was kindof this like next um paradigm shift thatwas um that was when cloud code came outand the fundamental difference betweencloud code and chatgbt is that cloudcode is living locally on your machine.That's the main difference there, right?Um, and it also has memory in a sense,although it's actually more about uhcontext, managing your context. Um, italso has uh tools, although um I wouldsay the tools are a bit more powerfulbecause they're more flexible and youcan kind of manage uh which tools it ithas access to better. And then thefundamental difference is that it canreally like write and uh read fileslocally. And so the first big use casethat um came out of this was that it'sjust it's really good useful for forcoding. Um that's why it's called clotcode. Uh because you know like whenyou're coding you usually like have ahuge folder of files locally on yourmachine. Uh, and if you want to do thatin the cloud, it's like super supercumbersome. Like you you basically needto like switch uh switch upload thosefiles all the time, switch around, copyand paste. And so this made it reallyuseful for uh for coding. Um, and overtime, I think people like startedrealizing that there are all of theseother cool use cases too, um, likemarketing. Um and and that's kind oflike starting to to become more of a hottopic now I'd say.Okay. So now what is then actually thisnext uh stage uh which is open claw likehow is open claw actually different fromuh cloud code. I would say one of themain differences is that uh thecommunication layer is is different likeyou can communicate with your open clawum through these apps like telegramsslack and so on. So, uh they're veryopen about that. You can bring it intoany of your chat applications. Whereaswith cloud code and and the other tools,you're locked into that uh ecosystem,right?Um they also like it's just like cloudcode, it also has memory and context. Italso has tools, although there are alsomore built-in tools than um than cloudcode. I'd say it also has this readwrite files locally um capability.And then one more thing that is likereally makes it stand out and and makesit different from cloud code is thisheartbeat and crrons.Um, and so heartbeat is essentially likea 30 minute timer that just continuouslylike makes your open claw kind of alive.Like every 30 minutes it comes alive andit does something for you. So it it youknow it it really makes it kind of likethis living thing almost. Um, and theother thing is also it has cron jobsbuilt in. So, uh, you can schedule, uh,tasks and, um, you know, you can likesay at 8:00 p.m. I want you to do thisand this and, um, it will run and and dothat for you.>> So, where do you see Claude Co in thisspectrum of stuff? I saw today thatthere's a new research preview that cameout from the anthropic team. It's calledDispatch.Basically, it's a persistentconversationwith code that runs on your computer.So, you can message it from your phoneand then come back to finish work. So,it looks it feels likeCL cloud is is sort of moving towardsthe direction of open cloud. So, I'mjust curious where you see it in in thespectrum.>> Totally. Yeah. Um, so I think claudecoowwork is was basically just theyrealized that claude code is reallyawesome and then they wanted to put anicer interface on it so that regularpeople will also want to use it. So theykind of built cloud co-work and put thatin the app with just a nicer UI butunder the hood it's it's basically thesame as as cloud code. Um, and then whenOpenClaw came out,um, because it was so so hyped and andyou know, like so popular, um, theyrealized that, okay, like we kind ofneed to build something that's similarto that, too. So, we're going to startbuilding some of the features and addingthat. And so throughout the last liketwo or three months since open clawstarted taking off they've been buildingthese features like the one that youmentioned uh dispatch which theyreleased yesterday um which is uh youknow essentially like you can you cantalk to claude co-work through yourmobile phone and that is kind of thefeature that openclaw has one of itsstandout features which is that you canyou know bring it anywhere um and sowhat I do expect to happen is that itlike cloud code and cloud co-work and soon they will all build like their ownkind of versions of uh open claw.>> Cool.>> So basicallyyou know how do you decide between openclaw and co-work if someone's listeningto this like how why should they useopenclaw over co-work? Mhm.Um, right now OpenClaw is definitelystill more more powerful. It has more ofthese like interesting features built inlike the ones we're we're going to gointo in a bit. Um, cloud code is stillmore limited. Um but over time I thinkthey will be relatively similar oranthropic and you know all of the bigplayers are going to have their own kindof versions of openclaw but openclawwill be like the just the open- sourceversion. So it's it then kind of becomesa question you know it's like why wouldyou use uh Linux over over Windows. Sothere are just like some um advantagesover open source more flexible andpeople just like it people cancontribute uh to it and so on.>> Cool. Yeah. I mean the thesis isbasically that it's more powerfulultimately because you have the backingof the open source communitycontributing to it. It's morecustomizable. So you know that thatwould be one reason main reason whyyou'd go to open claw but yeah let'scontinue.>> Yeah cool. So then let's get into thisum yeah optimized setup. So um you mighthave tried installing openclaw. It'sit's like technically um not super hardto do the initial setup. um youbasically need to go to the the websitehere and and copy this command and pasteit into terminal and then follow theonboarding. Um but where most of thepeople then get stuck is when they thenstart using it and then like all kindsof errors pop up and you know thingsbreak and they don't know how to fix it.And so, um, these 10 steps I'm going togo through now are to, uh, help you justmake your open claw setup a lot better.And the first thing I, uh, want you todo is to establish a so-calledtroubleshooting baseline, uh, before youdo anything else. And, um, basicallywhat I want you to do is go into your,uh, claude um, desktop app or or, uh,web as well. go into projects. Uh youcan obviously use CHB2 um if you want togo into the projects feature. They havethat too. And then just create a newproject. Uh call it openclaw support.And inside of this project, you'll wantto upload the openclaw documentation.And um the openclaw documentation isbasically like where all of thesolutions are to your problems. Umbecause like if you run into an error,it is like a very high likelihood thatuh somewhere in the docs there's asolution to how you're going to solvethis. But obviously you don't want to goin here and click through it and andsearch for the um search for the answeryourself. So what you can do is go tothis site called contact 7 um which isuh just a site that like has up-to-datedocumentations.search for OpenClawand just click this link here with thedocs. Um, so they have a like acompressed version of the documentation.Basically, you can copy that and go backinto your project here and just add thatas a file. So add um add it in here andthen save it. So I've already saved ithere. And what this does is it makes umthe answers a lot better becausenormally claude will if you ask itsomething about openclaw it like it cangive you the right answer but it oftenjust makes something up uh if it doesn'treally know it doesn't always go andcheck the docs by itself through its uhweb search feature and so just addingthe docs here is a lot more robust. Sofor example, I can say now um how do Ipairmy telegramand um you'll see here that it will yeahthe first thing it does is let me checkthe project knowledge and context 7. Uhso it will actually go and check thecheck the context there to give you theanswer.>> This is really smart. I wish I knew thiscuz I was just like,>> you know, promptinguh without the context and it would sendme to like a random Reddit post thatsomeone or you know>> Yeah. Yeah.>> And then I try the thing and then itdoesn't work and I'm like, "Oh, yeah, ofcourse.">> Yeah. Yeah. Happened to me a lot, too.And since I have this um it's solvedlike 99% of my problems.Cool. So uh then that's the first step.The second step then is aboutpersonalization. Um and I uh saw yourthe previous podcast with Remy. He kindof talked about that too. And it's it'sa very similar process as with cloudcode. When you set it up, you want togive it like all of the context and uhthe the context about yourself and alsohow it should behave. And so one umimportant thing to know here is thatwhen you um install OpenClaw,it essentially installs this this folderhere called workspace.So I have this I have this here openedup in um cursor. You can open up open itup in in any other um text editing tool.Um and inside of this workspace you thenhave these important files. So one ofthem is agents.mmdand this is basically the file thatdefines the agent behavior. So probablythe most important file. Um you have thesoul.md which is like defining theagent's personality.Um we can go into that too. So umbasically like how you want the agent toreply to you. Uh you have an identity.mdwhich is similar. Then you have auser.md which is like info about uh youas the user. Um and so what you shoulddo in the beginning is to just give it abunch of context so that it can so thatit has this context and can work withyou in an optimal way. And um the bestway to do that is to either you cancreate these folders and just dump it inthere or you can kind of like talk toyour bot and um just give it thatinformation um over time. Um I thinkwhat's also very important to know isthat every time you have your bot uhopened here and uh are are talking to itin a in a session um these are the filesthat are loaded in by default. So umlike whatever is in these files the thebot knows about um and and so it'simportant to like manage these fileswell.Does that make sense?>> Yeah. I think uhit's remarkablehow big of a dealsetting up these files properlyaffect output.Yeah. Yeah, they're very important. Andum you want to really optimize them overtime. And um then also tell your openclaw to like when when you noticesomething that you want to happen againor don't want to happen again, just tellyour open claw to update these files.And um yeah, get get um familiar withthese files also when you initially setit up. just go into them, read what'swhat's inside of them already and so on.Cool. So, um you have that. Now, uhmemory, let's talk about that becausethat's uh the third point here. And umthat's something that a lot of peopleare struggling with when they're umsetting it up for the first time andusing it. um they often complain aboutthe open claw just like not rememberingstuff and kind of being dumb aboutthings. Um and the kind of way to solvethat is first of all I thinkunderstanding how the memory actuallyworks in inside of open claw. So as Imentioned earlier like when you're in asession these are the files that arejust always loaded. Um, and you thenhave actually a a built-in functionalitywhich um depending on like what youwrote, it will go and search for thingsin the memory. Um, so so it's it's veryimportant that um your memory is likelogged so that something can besearched, right? That's that's kind ofobvious. And so the first thing youshould do is ensure that your memory isbeing saved. And uh for whatever reasonlike when you when you initially setopen claw up um this file doesn't existyet this memory.mmd. So you kind of needto tell your open claw to create it. Andthis memory MD file is supposed to beits long-term memory. So it's like whereall of the important things that's likelearnings and insights over time andsome of your preferences also should beum flowing into and should be logged inthere. So this is kind of like the uhmore highle memory and then there's alsoa more granular memory which is savedinside of a uh memory folder. And youcan see that here if I go into my uh myworkspace. So I have this memory folderand these are created on a daily basis.So every day it it should basicallywrite things in there. Um and and likelog the things that you've been doing.Um and these are just more more detailedthan this uh higher level u memory.Um so okay so that's kind of the thefirst part of of the memory problem. Umthen like I found that this command hereum which is it's like I don't want toget too technical but it's it says setcompaction memory flash enabled to trueand set memory searchexperimentalsession memory to true. And what thisessentially does isum you sometimes have the problem thatyou're you're chatting with it and thesession gets bigger and bigger, right?Um and it then starts to like when itgets close to the context window, itstarts doing what's called a compaction.And when a compaction happens, it losessome of that information because it'slike trying to summarize everything. Um,and what this uh setting here does is itsays like before you do the compaction,just make sure you write everything intomemory. And this way like none of thatstuff gets lost. So, this one's umpretty useful. I think some of it may beum already implemented by default in thenewer updates, but this was somethingthat helped me a lot um when I when Iset it up in in the beginning. Um,another thing that I've implemented isas I mentioned like the the main problemactually of of the memory not working isbecause the memory was not saved in thefirst place. So I kind of implemented asort of autosave feature. Um, and I justadded into my heartbeat um this extrainstructionof like uh essentially like just alwaysevery 30 minutes saving to uh to memory.So you can see here uh it says check iftoday's memory file exists and is up todate um and then create it if it'smissing and out of all current sessionslog a summary of what has been discussedand so on. So this just makes sure thatevery 30 minutes it's really logging thememory and that