that. Sowe'll see. Uh we'll go back to the taskboard and umwe will have Ray here. I don't know ifuh this is going to be dynamic oranything uh but we'll see. So first wehave thisand share it and yeah I thought it wassupposed toit will pick the meeting name.So it uh I should have given thetranscript itself. Um but it's that ischaracter user. Okay. What it's doing isit tried to connect to the browser on mycomputer and even when I gave permissionto connect it didn't um not sure why. Sonow what it's trying to do is since theuser said to simulate I'll craft arealistic fathom discovery call payloadand post it directly to web hook in injustest endpoint. Uh so I'm completelyokay with that. Uh while it's doing thatI will come back here to see discoverycall followup task. So it createdsomething for us for ray. if Ry ispicking it up in 5 hours urgent.So, we'll see if uh Ray picks it up. Ifhe picks it up, it has to first send mean alert and thenhe works on the taskand gets back to me.Uh once that's done,that is the flow. Why are you notpicking up the task?So, I feel like I know what's going on.There is a thing called user assignedtask and agent assigned task. When I wasOkay, codeex.Okay, there is an error apparently.Okay, we'll see.Hey, you're not paying up the desk. Sowhen I was uh using multi- aent discordserverwhat happened was when a user wasassigning work to another agent it didnot pick it up. So when I asked for areason it said I did not pick it upbecause it was agent created. We onlyrespond to human created tasks. So Ithought it was a thing.Okay. Reason I didn't pick out there isno actionable rate askno action tasks.So I will go to my cloud code agent andask it what the hell is going on becausethis is the crucial piece. If you knowwhy is it null? If other task has myuser ID, it should have my user ID forthis one too. Okay, it should matchthe other tasks that are the todo appand everything. If it has my user ID,this newly created task assigned by youshould also have my user ID updated andlet me know.So this is exactly what I'm talkingabout. If it's not assigned by the user,they have a hard time.Okay,I'm really surprised to see his name.Bji is myfirst really first agent that I builtwhen I was doing my open floor video. Sothat was in January.The entire thing that messed the wholething up must be this, right? So let'sgo back toour a Okay, it's gone to doing. So let'sif you open telegram discovery callfollow up discovery call adorwebsite redesign doing aent executionstarted.So it might take a while because weasked two things one is proposal and oneis prototype. So I will okay HTMLwritten now it assumes so okay sorry Iwas reading after the task is done itwill give us something like this so Iwill wait now the time is 700 p.m. Let'ssee how long it takes for it to do thewhole thing if it does. And before Ipause, I want to check whetherit made any if there is anychange in here. Now, as you can see, theagent here is completely silent. It'snot moving.We are spawning another workercompletely to do that task and it'sworking in the background and there is agood chance based on how big the task isit might fail. So the key is balance andalso how long have you set up this timeout for. So if it fails, we will inquireor we willsee what the issue is and we willprobablyfix it. If it works, it's great. By thetime it's done, we can probably work onother things. For example,we need to create a new page. It iscalled identity.I'm adding an inspiration from anotherapplication. It should have all thesefields. You should also createuh a daily memory log table where agentscan create memories every single day andit should be agent specific. Right nowRy is the only agent. You can be anagent too. You can give yourself ausername and create an identity on theapplication.Let's do two things. Let's createidentity folder and cards for eachavailable agent. The first agent is Ry.So I need to create soul identityheartbeat and all of that. So Ray canpopulate his entries. Ray can populatehisdaily memory log and everything. Solet's build that next.Once you do that, I need you to updatethe integration guide. So what are theAPI calls to update soul identityheartbeat upload daily memory logs andeverything.So we are doing two things right. Solet's go to my desktop add a screenshot.This is it.I'm here at the corner.Let's go toour telegram. I received an alertcompleted discovery call followup codeexerror an error record processing yourrequest you can try your request orcontact us message sequence number I'mturning the transcript into twoartifacts andpolish html clickable then I'll smoketest commit mark has done both artifactsare created I'm smoke testing theproposal type locally so I want to go tothis page and uh actually let me openopen floor and seewhat is going on.I don't have open floor.Okay, let's go to terminaland open this and go to workspaceandacme redesign proposal proposal. HTMLwebsite redesign 3D product showcaselaunch target it has executive summaryhas phase one core marketing website 3Dproduct showcase client portalsalesforce CRMokay phase three if I ask PDF I'm sureit would have created a good PDF toonice let's see prototypemarketing site inline 40 live demo datamarketing site. I don't think this isreally that good a demo.So you can see we canlet uh this createclient portal refresh demo salesforcelink accountopen dashboard. It's not really working.So if I say we need a better way to umgive feedback and um set this up. Butthis is how you can automaticallyassign tasks to agent as they come in.Whether that's processing, creatingthese proposals or sending messages toyour team members, whatever the task is,they can do this for you. So this is agood experiment and um the way I wasprompted creating these two artifactsthere we should have been more like okayafterthey are done you need to upload thoseboth HTML files to the automations andautomations holder reports so I willactually once the identity is set andlet's refresh wish if it's done. Uh dowe have any questions? D ask us anyquestions? Okay, it is still building.So I just got an idea. So we can askonce the task is moved to donethe created task. We need to add anothertask saying the created HTML reports orfiles should be uploaded to the reportssection with the task name as the title.So create both the table and the APIcall to upload to that table HTML fileuh within the task and assign ray. Sowhen you have a new agent let's say youwant to create broad code agent.So this is what we are going to do. Weare building this meeting assistant likea raw meeting assistant using justcloud code as a builder and open flaw asorchestrator and executor right but inthe next tutorial in our cloud codemaster class what I'm going to teach youis that we are going to do thiscompletely with cloud code agents maybewe will use open claw but cloud code isso much better in creating theseprototypes and everything. So towardsthe end of this tutorial, I will alsoshow something called eightphaseautopilot autonomous builds where openlyagent will assign birth to a cloud codeagent. That is the final chapter that Ihave planned. But for now justunderstand the principle. Okay, justunderstand the principle of how uh thisworks. Not really the final output. Itwill be there is a lot of room forimprovement based on how we areprompting. For example, my proposal, Idid not give this agent anything aboutwhat a good proposal should look like.But we have three page long prompt forour proposals the way we writeproposals. So once I give that promptand create a skill around that prompt,everything changes. For example, if youlook at my application and go to skillfactory, we have all of these skills.All of these skills that I can, youknow, hook writer, description,thumbnail brief generator, ideavalidator, script architect, outlierhunter. I don't know why the proposal isnot showing up here, but we do have aproposal skill. And that skill isactually built intowhat we have in the op center. And whenI go to the meeting intelligence, itwill have if you go to the proposals, ithas created a proposal for us. And it isbased on actual prompt that we havegiven. So the next update we are doingfor the application is actually addingan identity toidentity as a page here.So you can see what's going on withtheir memory, their identity, soul,heartbeat, bootstrap, all of those pileswill be visualized and you can see allof that identity system. It is done. Andif we open it, it says Ray and Buji.And uh I think this is from Claude Gold.Uh if we open Ray, we have so soul.md isempty and daily memory logs are empty.But if we go to integration guide, wewill havesomething about something aboutidentity. Maybe it's not updated yet.Let's go to claw code and see what'sgoing on. I need to update the fullguide text string include identity APIdocs. Let me add to it. That's what it'sdoing right now. And um once theidentity is done, I will ask it tocreate this. So we don't have tomanually go to the page itself and seethe reports like what whether that'sproposals whether that's prototypes weneed something that we can seein the report section you are in adifferent computerlocal host wouldn't work so once this isdone I will start talking to theopenflow agent and uh mentionthat it should beupdating its identity.Okay, that is done. So this is acontinuation of my previous thing,right? I will go to the local host. Iwill close these two reports out and goto um this API reference and I willrefresh and go here and uh command APIupdate daily log create daily log okayperfect so I have no let's see if we cancopy the everything living dogs now justbycall them copy entire guide and I willcome here.We have updatedthe API and created identity page. Youcan upload your soul identity and uhmemory bootstrap everything daily memorylogs to this Asian command hub. Let's dothat right now. So it will start doingit. I will come here and uh once it'sconfirmed that it has uploaded I will goand check and let's check on status.I'll claim reports tab task created.We'll come here and go to taskboard.Okay, it already picked it up. It'samazing how fast this is. upload HTMLreports to reports table when tasks aredone doing high priority and uhoh it's amazing that it's alreadycreated the automation created the wayfor it to upload it to here I think itwill fa we will face an error for somereason don't know whether it oh okay itcreated when task is created task IDcompleted task UIUD full HTML stringuploaded by Ray emoji. There should beBNB standard of task completion flow.Okay, let's close it. Uh I receivedanother alert. So let's see.Okay, mine might be another alert.Nothing to do with this one. So theprevious task was done in 5 minutes,which is amazing. 700 p.m. and 7:5 p.m.completed. So 7:16 we asked it toupload. Maybe it will be done in 3minutes. 2 minutes already done. Okay.Let's see what did we ask it to create?Okay. The identity.So I see BJI. Is that you the agent?Will you create your soul identitymemory files as well? Nice.It named itself PG.Okay.First upset Asian. There is no open ratetask right now. This one was alreadycompleted. I received another alert.Codeex error. Why does it say codeexerror? But the task is completed. Uh weneed to figure this out. Please includerequest ID.Your message param. No. Okay. Let's see.that it's done. We won't care if it'sdone, right? So, automationsreports, I don't see anything.Also, rayar task has done, but I don'tsee the report. Can you check what'sgoing on? I need to knowit's way.So let's go to our pageand u see what's going on with thiswhole identity and all of that. So wehave ray and we open ray. Nothingidentity nothingstill nothing.What about bridge?So we have soul. My name is personalbuilder architect agent. I operateinside agent command hub. The missioncenter for AI agents. This is amazing.Okay. Identity. We have the identity andwe have user.m MD who is memorylong-term curated memory and we havedaily memory logs which isstraightforward what did this RA do wecome back to Ray and askshould be openno just uh updateyour soul identity and all of that. Sowe know that this is working. Okay.Yeah, it loaded as 10. So it takes timeto load data from Fathom. That's whatI've seen with uh because Superbase hasthe Fathom API key. Anytime we open it,it loads the data using the API key. Ifyou don't have the API key or the wrongAPI key, if you revoke the API key, itwon't work. So now we have the identitynow. So this is how you can seewhat your open floor is up to. Okay. Areyou here?ThenI don't know why this is going on. Codexhaving an issues.So I started a new session forward/neon.I should have updated memory.Do you remember a report we were workingon earlier? You were supposed to updateyour soul identity memory daily marylogs toour Asian command hub and I gave you theintegration guide. Do you recall that?This would be super funny because Ishould have saved you know clicked oncompact or anything because I did not dothat. There is a good chance it has lostthe memory. Yes, at least partiallycheck memory before answering that ofthings especially holding Asian flow. Idon't have okay so it's gone which isbad. Um okay you have soul s so identitymemory bootstrap and all these filesright user.mdI want you to upload those files thecontent from those files to agentcommand hub and uh this is theintegration guide for it and now that wehave thatintegration guide we Solet open claw update its memory and allof that. Uh okay. I for some reason Ireceived another upload HTML.Okay. Didn't I thought it already moveduh the task to done.Maybe it recreated it because I said Ido not see. Um okay remark. Now let meso the confirmed reports table is emptydidn't actually upload anythingthen the report is empty has completedseveral tasks problem found itlist create update assign delete uploadreport actiondoesn't okay upload report and completeokay that's why I'm receiving an alertOkay, let's seeagain. It says completed in 1 minute andI think it completed but OpenAI today ishaving all kinds of issues. So, did itdo this? No, it's still empty. Taskboardsays it's done. If we go to automationsand reports, even then I don't seeanything.So we can set our table edit database aswell.And in table if we go toreportsreports table is empty.We go here again it's giving me anerror. What's going on? So we might runinto issue.It did the same thing. No report.Can you inquire what happened? I almostfeel like it'll have a battle. Why is itanswering mebunch of times?It's really unusual out of um you knowlaw what can go wrong always goes wrongand on the day I do the master classit's giving me issuesand confirmed his identitypages are populated. I'm patching racecards now creating missing data login.Perfect. That is actually good. And Ithink our plot cohesion will createsomething forlet's see same pattern again to donewith relevantand just using low to done like italways does core issue. Now got the newactions.I hate to prosperwhen more being done without a report.Okay, that's usually these agents ask ifI have to change any soul or otheragent. It will ask permissions but it'sreally unusual that it is going aheadand doing the whole thing itself. Sowe'll see uh what happens and this isonly one AI employee. We are going tocreate three more. Why does it say it'sumit populated?So when I go toidentityray so yes you are not a chatbot you arean execution engine with personalityship first talk second when a task isassigned your only job is to produceartifactsperfect this and we have memory logdaily memory log with all the log thathappened today.This is amazing. And uh we have user.mdand we have agents.mdand we have tools.md. So you can see allthese filesand it's funny what cloud code will donow. Okay. What I found trace demonbehavior is joined by identity cards.Note by task description cards had zeroknowledge of upload report list reportsor complete action. So when I picked thetask it used I can prompt Ray to datehis Damon. Should we do that? Is that abetter way or did you already take careof it? So I went ahead and did fewthingsand uh did I receive an alert? No, Idon't know what's happening now.It picked it up and did not give me analert.And uh this is what Clara did. It was uptherewhose memory those persist.Soyour job is toundo what you did.Just keep tools and memory as they are.Right now I'm already seeing the effectsof it. I did not receive a telegramalert when I picked up the task. This isbad. We are not supposed to do that.And give me the task I should be givingfree.SoCloud Gold thought it was a good idea tochange all of that.known.That's not what I asked. Change toolsand memoryto the way they were. Yes. So, we don'thave to usually go to this much trouble.But this action will be useful for a lotof things in future. Agent assignmentsand everything. As you can see,previously it worked as well. It went todoing but it did not give me this updatebecausecode went ahead and changed tools andmemory. Although it says appended data,it definitely affected what we set upwith open flaw. So it is a good practiceand something that you should keep inmind that you should not let an AI agentcontrol other AI agents identities toolsand all of that. And maybe it's a goodidea to include it in a rule because I'musing two completely new agents. I don'tcare. But if these were my actualagents, main agents that I'm workingwith, I would be really careful.So I just marked it down one last time.Fingers crossed.Let's see. Okay, I think the more ormore accurate one is right here.SoI see around sixtasksin the table superbase table, butthey're not showing up on the front end.It's not a ray issue but a front endissue. Fix that.So that is what's going on. We have thereports table that we have beenupdating. Uh if we can check the time,we should be able to check the