and thenvalidate help and once you do that yourChrome extension configuration is willopen up automatically. I don't want toreload it because it has a tendency ofnot working because you can go to thisand for me it will say it's alreadyconfigured or something. It says okaybut maybe if Iyeah I actually closed mine so I'm notexactly sure if um I can show you. Idon't want to go through the wholeprocess but this is these are the exactsteps. So what happens once you followthese exact steps? They will say yourChrome extension will turn green. Butfor me it did not turn green. Uh it isstill red. So for example I go here toemail right. I willclick on this uh extension. I'm not sureif you can see this. I click on thisextension and nothing happens. So inaccording to open flaw we are attachingit. So I want to go here. Hey, I justattached a Gmail tab and I have a GitHubemail open. Can you craft a funny emailabout why GitHub should stop verifyingme every 2 daysand make it funny. I know this is a noreply email, but create a draft anywayand confirm you have access to that tab.So right now if the steps that I did hadworked, it should have access to thatGmail unless something changed and Irefreshed my gateway, reseted my gatewaybunch of times in control, but right nowit has cloud ops not Gmail. Switch toGmail one with GitHub open. Click onopen relay extension. Okay.and the head click.Maybe click once is fine. Try now.So maybe I click twice in the previouscase.So if I open it, yeah, it is creatingthat funny email as we speak. Okay, whatwill it do?Let's see.I'm excited too. I get help teamrespectfully if I verify it one moretime this week. We basically help Mr.Sony chip. I appreciate the securityhustle but getting pseudo verificationin a couple of days. basic feel like I'mtrying to enter a secret call can alllayer instroke.Awesome.Love that. So you can you know whatevermodel you are using if you do that youshould be able to control your browserand that is the browser relay. So whatabout ability to send emailsnot from here not from your browser butopenflow itself and I use a tool calledagent mail. So set up as mail get yourAPI key install the SDK there are abunch of steps you can it can do it foryou. So you can go here and go to and uhonce you're in you can get started andyou can log in with your Google accountis easier. Ithis is essentially giving your agent anemailand you get like 3,000 emails a monthwhich is more than enough for any kindof alerts that it's doing. Oh, actuallyI have an account. So I will sign inwith Google. If you don't have anaccount, you sign up. So welcome toagent mail. And you need to create um aninbox. So if you look at my inbox, oh noinbox yet. So we can create one. Createinbox. We can say usernamerayand umdisplay name ray.Okay. Raybotto create inbox. They will let me ray atAsian mail.So once I have that I can copy the APIkey and um can I paste? Okay. No, it'snot possible. My API key, neon API key,which I will probably revoke because,you know, it's easier. I'm going to givethis.Let's do this as a test.How do I export API keys again?I want to make this fold root. Okay. Iwas asking for a no-brainer, a simplestep kind of thing and uh echo exportpersistent service restart. We have thekey which I willum revoke it. SoI just want to follow the good practicehere.agent mayo API key I want to see. Yeah,length 70.I did not set uh length was not 70.Okay, we'll see.We've set um the agent mail key. Can youconfirm that it works?And if it does, I want you to set upemail sending capabilities and send mean email at money miatgrowthcreators.ai.It actually came back with somethinginteresting.It says Asian mail variables are notavailable yet. And it says echo exportAsian mail and raybot at agentmail. AndI thought it was really funny how itknew that it was raybot.The key I did the exact same process forecho exportation mailig.And when I printed the length at 70,look harder. And uh it's I find itreally funny why it actually showed thelength as 70.Yeah, I checked harder. Hand group to100.Great. Uh then send me an email.Perfect. I received the email frommybot at agentmail.to.So that's how you would set your browsercontrol and uh email via Asian mail.Exciting stuff. Before we move on, Ineed to show you something uh that isvery important. Everything we just did,connecting GitHub, setting up browsercontrol, writing up email, you builtthat by hand and that's importantbecause you need to understand how itworks under the hood. But there is afaster way. Open law has skillsecosystem. Think of skills like plugins,right? There is a skill for emailmanagement, uh a skill for meetingnotes, content creation, generatingproposals, hundreds or thousands ofthem. And they're all open source. Youcan read every line, modify anything, oruse them as a starting point. So you canbuild upon them, make it your own. Andto install a skill, it's just one line.I can show you. I will open my uh maybeI should go toanti-gravity. Let me open that realquick. If I just add this right npx uhproceed. Yes, I will show you how toread the skill before you install it.Don't do that blindly. Um skills are oneof the ways that you can get promptinjection. You only you need to verifyyou need to read everything whicheveryou are in static. But this is to make apoint, right? Uh this is to give youragent uh the ability to turn any meetingtranscript into action items with ownersdeadlines. And you just do that with onecommand. And you can browse a lot ofthese skills from playbooks.com.If you go back to the presentation, uhyou go to playbooks.com and I also addedsomething for use cases. So this is ananob bananauh pro skill and it has a skill.md file.You usually read through the whole thingandonly move forward if you feel like thatmakes sense. Okay, you have bunch ofskills, you have open flaw skills, youshould have plot code skills and umagain the only thing that'syou know giving stopping you from givingyour agents a ton of cool superpowersupgrades is yourself. You see 1,000pages and if you count this it's youknow there are a good uh 30 to 40 skillson this page. So that's 30 40,000 skillsthat you can use potentially use and itworks with bins uh cursor client claudegold um anything you can think of agentskills and also we have uh another sitethat you can go it's called claudiverseor there is claude hub as well but Ikind of uh you know it has some negativeum vibe to it now that uh you know itwas hacked and everything. Not hacked,anyone could potentiallygo and add a skill that is malicious.And these platforms have that risk too.And it's really importantto learn how you can come up with theyour own skills and you should but takeinspiration from it. Read everything anddon't install anything that you don'tknow. and business automation use cases,productivity use cases and email andcommunication automation. It has theresources and everything from X. So thisis also a great resource for you to ifyou're thinking what's possible withOpenClaw, what can I build? This is agood place to start to andyou know the this literally can giveyour agent superpowers in minutes.Previously to build this automation orbuild a workflow nmake.com would take aton of time. But now um it's so easyright now throughout the rest of thiscourse after certain chapters I'm goingto show um what I call a pro move. It'sa community skill or a real worldexample. That's what we've been doing sofar, showing examples of people who havebeen using it uh similarly. And movingforward, there will be sections likethat too becauseif you see someone using exactly what wejust built at scale,um it's it does something, you know,it's worth it. People are doing makingreal money with this. Think of it likean extra credit. You don't need it, butif you want to go further, it's there.Okay, let's keep building.So, let's go to section six, build yourown task management. By this point,every person who is doing these openclaw tutorials and their dog are doingand building this canban book. Andthat's for a good reason. You have to beable to see your agents what they'reworking on and you can drag and drop andyour agents should be able to move themto it should have a proper asseneesubtasks and this will be the backboneof every autonomous workflow. So if welook at you know I know there is morehere turn budget guidance this is moreto do withif you are working with multiple agentsthat's whyI talk about assignees task subtasks youhave to understand you can only do somuch with one open agent and it's just amatter of time you will start to see thegaps, the holes in it. You will needmore open claw agents work for you andthis is the best way you know what'sbest way to start building yourdashboard from day one keeping in mindyou are adding more more agents down theline. So that is the key. So if you lookat what this has the board, it has fivecolumns and one workflow. You can addmore by the way. Five made sense for me.To-do, doing, needs input, done andcancelled. Every task starts in to-do,moves to doing, and wait, and then anagent or human picks it up. So goes toneeds input if block. And if AI agentdoesn't have a key an API key that willdo the job or certain permission acapture that only human can solve that'swhere it goes to needs input and thetask is blocked and done which arecompleted and cancelled and also this isa good metric to have in your maindashboard as well becauseyou can see how many tasks that werecompleted that day or previousSo if you look at AI tasks that arecompleted this week and it's onlyThursday, we already have all of this,right? uh and uh you know Sherlock,Discordbot online, Claude brain and Ihave multiple agents here and you canadd multiple agents as well in yourplatform too but we are just buildingand if you missed the previous lovablebuild we built something the scaffoldingthe UI for the dashboard in Lavable. Ifyou haven't watched that, please dobecause that is what we are going to usethat application. We actually broughtthis to link this to GitHub. And withinthis GitHub,we only have placeholder data and justthe UI. Our open flaw agent will work onit and improve on it. build these canbanboards to the point where you caneffectivelywork with your AI agents. So what makesa task? It has a title, description,column, priority and um due date,assignees, subtasks and position. Sothis is what the task has and the taskmanagement you can create, you can move,you can set and update due dates, addestimate. Obviously when there arefields they can be manipulated, right?You can the these are the things you cando when it comes to task management anduh assignees. You can assign it tohumans. AI agents can assign AI agentsby agent name. So if you have a mainagent uh like an orchestratorand executors these agents names canshow up there too and uh you can domultiple assignees per post per job oryou can do multiple agents because eachtask will have subtasks you can add moreagents there too. So we have subtasksand we have AI agent integration. Agentscan create tasks via API. This is reallycrucial. If agents are not able to useAPI, you don't have anything. So to setthis API up, most people are using theirone open agent showing you how to set itup using local storage.I don't think that would work and youneed something that an API endpoint thatyour agents can call and if you havefour different agents, five differentagents, they should be able towork together on a single platform andthat is what we are building here and weare going to use superbase pretty tier.The only limitation is every 7 days youhave to restart the server. But if youwant to get a pro plan, it's only $25 amonth. It's well worth it. Andmove to needs input move to done whencomplete works with eightphase pipeline.So a lot of you don't know whateightphase pipeline is. It is uh like anautopilot autonomous sequence. Uh I willshow you what that means in futuresections. But just know your agents canassign tasks to other agents that willdo every build every task in in aeightphase sequence. They you know thenas soon as they receive a command theydon't just jump in blind. You have toset context, plan and then you knowcreate the task and once the task iscreated you build. After building youtest if it breaks you have to heal andthen retest and rebuild finally close.So those are the eight phases and everyagent that is being assigned the workwhether that's open claw agent or cloudcode agent using agent SDK you will havethis eight phase like autopilotautonomous task fulfillmentthat your main agent can dispatch thiswork other agents can pick it up and doit and give the result back. So we willbuild that too. So human plus agent onthe same board. Your board is shade. Youand your agents see the same tasks. Youcan create a task manually. Assign it toSherlock. So if you say Sherlock or Rayall of those things, please know thoseare my AIS.Uh it is just assume it is AI agent notSherlock. Okay. or agent can create atask assign you and move it through thepipeline assigne system uses a unifiedlookup. So it is hard to remember I gotthat and also if you want to use lovableto get to the point where I am at. Sothis is the board right. It has all theit looks much better than a regularcanban board. It has assignees. It has,you know, if I want to add more people,I can add this is, you know, you can seethe glow, the hover animation thatpowers up, you know, when I clicksomething, when I move something. Thisis spawn to Asian. All of this looksreally good. It is hard for codeex orcloud code to achieve. For that reason,as a bonus, I gave you this additionalUI prompt, but it's not needed. Okay,this is the most important cloud bodycomplete API reference and we will askthis is the API reference and I want youto build this for me, right? And alsobefore we do that, we have to set up oursuperbase.Okay, we need to go back to our openclaw agent.I just went through something calledbrute forceway to fix things with open law and Iwant to give you a quick rundown of whathappened. So first I started off with umyou know how if you watched in previoussections I was able to clone the GitHubrepository directly. I can give themessage to open claw hey clone this repoand I cloned it and started working. Buttoday it did not work and for thelongest time all of the sessions that Iwere starting had that kind of access.it can run my command line. Butsomething happened. I've been trying alot of things this morning andwhen I asked it to clone this repo, itdid not work. So I said, can you accessmy command line? No, no direct commandline execution of a chat session. Then Isaid, I still don't understand why is itnot working. It was working yesterdayand I closed all my sessions and openedonly DUI and even then it's not working.So, it gave me a plan. Okay, run thesein your TUI. It should work. And I'mshowing you 1 234 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1314 and 15. After 15 back and forthmessages, I am now at a point it mighthave worked and I didn't know, you know,I'm not 100% sure yet, but it mightwork. So, it asked me to start a newsession. If I start a new session,usually what happens was uh it willprobablyit willwhen I start a new session, it willprobablyclear the chat sometimes and I didn'twant that to happen. So,doesn't happen every time, but sometimesit will. And after 15 back and forthmessages, I want to see finally whetherthis has worked or not. Okay. Uh let'ssee. Run password and get status. And uhif it is okay, here it is. We have awinner. We finally managed to work after15 tries. If not, I'll have to turn somedo some more.Perfect. Working all track. So the fixwas this is what you need to set. But Iwill ask.So I created this document that I'mgoing to link in the presentation whichis what happened and how session wasrouting correctly yesterday anddifferent runtime session and what wedid to fix everything kind of commandsand if you just give this to your openlyagent it should be able to figure itout. Solet's begin. The entire thing wasstarted because we had tobuild our canban board, right? Sowithout further ado,let's continue.We have the repo. We will copy thatrepo. And the next step is actuallysetting up the the next step is actuallysetting up our superb basease. And uhlet's clone the repo. And uhokay,it's just the UI and scaffolding. We arebuilding every feature step by stepstarting with the superbase integration.Sotake a look and tell me what needsfixing.So it's a solid solid scaffold. Nothingbroken but it's not ready for real datayet. We are setting this fixing notinate proper. Okay. No waitand k.So what are the things that you wouldneed from superbase?Uh if I give you personal access token,can you set everything up uh and usesuperb way CLI?So whatever you need, just let me knowwhat to get and I will set theseI will export those keys intoenvironment.So I'm basically askingsuperbasethere is something like an API key.So we need to get all of this info fromsuperbase. Free tier is more thanenough. I'm not sure if I mentioned itbut um you still need to keep thisactive and if it's inactive for 7 daysit willyou know you won't be able to work withthis. So,it's only $25 for a free plan and thepro plan and everything after that is$10 per server. So, it's a really greatdeal if you ask me. I can we can do freetier create organizationand um step by step we will bringeverything. So superbase project URL isthe first one and um project URL oncethat is done what do we need? We needthe A on key. This is the