our meeting intelligenceassistant,we click on this page and it has youknow the three data types and onedashboard meeting records, overview,KPIs and calendar events. We'll bebuilding all of this using our builderwhich is cloud code. You can use codeexas well or anything any builder toolsfor that matter. So what does this have?What is the workflow? Workflow is we usea Fathom web hook. You can use whicheverweb hook, whichever emailyou can use whichever meeting assistantthat you use. Fireflies order doesn'tmatter. It will have a web hook optionwhere we can create a web hook endpointusing oursuperbase. And once we create that, itwill start receiving any kind ofinformation from any app that you wantlike you've seen earlier. and rawreports. These will take in raw reportswhich are transcripts and uh actionitems and any summary that you thatwhatever your meeting assistant platformis sending and we will transform we willextract these fields and we will createops data. We will create meeting wrecketand save it to our database and it willbe a searchable UI. You will be able tosee all of that in dashboard. So theseare the fields that we are taking rightnow. for any reason your Firefliesdoesn't have any of these options youare welcome to change and your builderwhichever agent that is once you startworking with the web hook it will tellyou okay for example meeting type is notlisted can you guess what the meeting isbased on what it says if it is betweentwo people based on title it will markit as oneononeIf we say it's a team call or Q&A, itwill tag accordingly. And if you seeanything reli related to discovery call,sales call, anything related to sales,it will tag it as a certain thing. Socan you these are the things these aretype of meetings that fathom or may notproduce or fireflies will not give youout of the box. This is something we areclassifying. There are fields like thattoo. Soit is completely up to the builder andyourself to how many fields that youwant to change this to. And what are theUI components, KPIs and chats, searchand filters, meeting cards and featurepipeline prerequisites? You have ameeting recording tool that sends webhooks, supported options, a meetingrecording fathom AI, Firefly Ser or anytool that exports transcripts and actionitems via web hook or API. So calendarsync is optional Google calendar viamake.com. So I like to have this featurewhere I don't like to give my calendaraccess directly to openlow. I don't likethe idea of connecting where open clockcan create events. I create somethingcalled a buffer in the middle where Ionly give my uh Google calendar accessto plot code. So cloud code is thismiddleman. Anytime a change has to bemade, Open Claw will notify my cloudcode agent. My cloud code agent if itfits what I tell it to within the setcriteria, it will create an event forme. So I don't like giving grains orcontrol to open claw yet. So that's whyI use in this multi- aent orchestrationmulti- aent setup that I have cloud codehas control and what else buildingmeeting intelligence from scratch thisis the prompt we will have uh with ourbuilder you can use and try and givethis to our open employee agent as well.So if you see here we are talking aboutbuild and meeting intelligence moduleinside properties op center. This isclassic builder prompt but you can tryand wrestle withopen flaw if you want to but it willdrive you crazy trust me you will manageto make it work in the end but it takesa lot of time and you have to do a lotof additional work to make it work. Asimple change that right now it isbuilding this application.If yousee here, I said plodies op center. Iforgot to change the nameFYI, we are making changes to agentcommand hub, not property. And alsolet's create a page with the title opcenter. And the meetings will be one ofthe cards in this op center page. Andwhen someone clicks that page, they willsee the existing meetings page. AndFathom meeting key uh Fathom API key isnot available yet. I will provide itreal soon. Let's build this meetingintelligence first.So this is what I set and my job now isto go to the API key. Fathom. I want tocreate an API keyagent command hub.Create API key. I will revoke this keyas soon as we are done. And uh I willmake a note of say I save the API key.Right now I'm unable to see again I cansee this web hook secret everywhere. Ican copy it but I cannot copy the APIkey. So where do you paste the API keyyou might ask? So you have to go to theanti-gravity or any IDE for that matteryou can use if you use visual studiocode or cursor doesn't matter and thereis something called env.lo local in theagent command hub. You go there and youpaste your API key. This is the placewhere you will have all of your API key.This is the environment variables fromcloud code. So I will save it. I willcome back and uh go to cloud code andsayfathom API key is now set as anenvironment variable.And I'll just leave it there. It isalready working. So good. Now I havefull picture. Let me build navigationcontent. So openter cards can navigateto subpages. Op center.dsxpage with meetings card as placeholderfor future modules. Okay. So I think itcompletely misunderstood and it willcreate an op center. Oh okay. U meetingsis now gone. So you can see meetingintelligence as calendar sync, actiontaker, proposals and follow-ups,analytics and reports. Okay, we have itwe have 10 meetings and these are allplaceholders. Now that I've given theAPI key for my fathom, it will try andget I want to make sure we only ask tobring in this month'suh meetings or this quarter meetings. Idon't want you to completelyum fetch all of the meetings onlybring last 100 meetings no more thanthat. So now it's using the API key andfetching the fathom10 meetings from December 2025 onwardfull fathom API sheet. That's not true.Maybe I'll have close to10010 I had this week. I copied my FathomAPI key and I'm going tosuperbase and uh paste it in thesecrets.FYI, Superbasenow has Fathom API key. AlsoI I like naming my AI employees. So wehave a name for the phone agent which isLexa and email agent Nova and uh we canname this meeting assistant as well. Wecan call this let's change the op centercard name for meeting intelligence.Let's call it Janemeeting assistant.So I did something crazy. The fathom APIkey secret was stored in superbase withsurrounding double quotes and that's whyit was giving a 503 error and flaw codewas able to figure it out in like coupleof minutes if I was doing it. It wouldhave taken me a long time open would tryand fix and running in circles. Sothat's why I believe it's a builderagent is so much better in when it comesto building these one-time tasks.Okay, nextdone updated the card title in OB centerand uh the label in the headers now saysJane meeting assistant. Right nowtaskboard is working, op center isworking. Now we have our gene meetingassistant and when I open it it saysloading meeting from Fathom and it hasmy meetings that I had with Brian Q&AOscar. So it it brought in 10 meetingsfrom past 3D. That is okay. I asked for100 I believe. Um but if we want it canget us more. Okay. Has monthly trend. Ithas external. Uh, it looks good. Hasaction items. Will show once with actionitems. Doesn't have action items. It itum removes them. Okay, this is good.This is exactly what I wanted. So thenext question people obviously ask iswhat is the value here? Money. What didwe just build? So now we have to set upone the automation.As soon as a meeting finishes, it has tocome here. That's one the first thingthat we want to do. And the second thingthat you want to do is build a function.What is function? A function is a placewhere you set what happens with this rawweb hook data. Do you want to take thisweb hook data and um you know ask it toask an AI agent to review? That's one.And um if it's a discovery call, assignto an open law agent and then ask openagent to create a proposal andask an open claw agent to create aproposal and also a prototype if youwant. So whatever you want to do you canset it up. That is the beauty of this.So I will come to my cloud code agentand talk to that.Right now we have two options. One is tocreate these web hooks feature withinthe op center or within the meetingassistant. We can create a new tab andcreate web hooks and functions. So weset up a web hook endpoint. um save itto fit pan and as soon as there is ameeting you can or you can you know ifyou are not using one of these featureslet's say console I don't want to useconsole I will say I don't want to usethe console page let's rename it andchange it to a page calledautomations and in this automations weneed two tabsOne tab is called web hooks andfunctions. The other tab is called webhook Q.Web hooks and functions are interlin.You can create a new web hook andonce the web hook is created, you cancreate a functionthat goes with the web hook. This inthis function you should be able tospecify a prompt and the raw data thatis gained from the web hook can beprocessed using this function and theprompt. For example, if we builda web hook for Fathom,we canadd that web hook to Fathom and Fathomstarts sending meeting data to that webhook. And in my function I will set inmy natural language explain process thisdata inso and so format and send it to themeeting assistant page and uh you needto also updatethe tablethe meeting table accordingly toaccommodate this new process. this data.Okay, I should haveread what I said. I instead ofit's not console, it's console page.So, open claw when you're working withit usually goes to Q. But, um, thiscloud code, it's better and it actuallychecks before going through the wholething.nine out of 10 times. So I got thisquestion for web hook Q tab what shouldit show a log of oncoming web hookpayloads with their processing status.Yes. And uh when a function process webhook data via AR prompt where should theprocess data be stored?So create another tabsayingreports or resultsthat is where the processed data fromweb hooks live. And also I can makespecific requestssuch as this one uh where you route itto specifictables.For now, the Fathom web hook will onlygo to meeting table, but for others, itmight be different, but create a generictable and a reports page.So, should the AI prompt processinghappen via LLM API plot open AI insidethe function or should it use simpletemplate based processing for now? Somake it optional fall back throughAPI key is uh concerned. So I would liketo use an API call because it's easierumbecause we are alwaysgoing to receive templates based for nowuse structured templates or rules transcan add lm later. So yes, let's usethat.So for my other meeting SSN, what we didwas weget this and it do not have any kind ofprocessing. It will just stay there. Ican go ahead and add action items orproposal or lead magnet. Whatever optionthat I pick, it will then start theprocess. It will create a task for AI onthe board. Then open claw agent willcome in and do that work or cloud codeagent will come in and do that work. Sothat is how it it was set up and that'swhy I said no API key just this I wantto build that um I want to actually makethis much better than my version byadding automated processing. That's whyI'm kind of bleeding whether I shouldadd any API keys.So it says user wants to remove consolepage replace with automations page andwe have a bunch oftext there and now it's compactingconversation. It will be a while. So ourpage is now ready I think. So let's see.And also when you are working withFathom it is a bit different than otherweb hooks. It will give you a webbooksecret and your builder agent has todeal with that in a different way. I'llshow you what I mean in a minute.But for now I will go here go toautomations and uh no web hooks yet. webhook Q and uh web hooks and functionscreate web hookfathom meeting web hook.So let's create it. I'm unable to createnew web hooks and when I close it, it'snot creating. When I actually createclick on create web hook, it's notworking.And also for fathom only we need tocreate a web hook in a certain way theyhave a web hook secret can you gothrough the API documentation and let meknow what's the right way to fetchmeetings. So as soon as the meeting isdone we will receive that web hook. Sowhen we go here manage and click on addweb hook it says destination URLand it has a secret right so what I wantto do it has a web hook secret that'swhat we told them told cloud code solet's see okaynow when that is going on I wanted toadd something else so if you look athere We have something interesting. Youcan see bunch ofoptions here which has soul identity,user, memory, agents, tools, heartbeatand daily memory logs. Right? So youragents have all of this and you want tokeep track of these things and it'simportant. I'll tell you why. Because ifyou find things uh if you keep log ofthings every single dayespecially if you are using CLI it's sohard to read what's going on. You cannotopen memory MD and uh or you cannot openmemory daily memory logs just to getinformation what to find out whathappened that day. That's reallyunrealistic. So what I would recommendinstead is creating a page on whicheverdashboard you're using. So for example,if you look at here, we are not usingmulti- aents anyway, but we will towardsthe end. We are using taskboard. AI logis we will make AI log work. uh wheneverour agent does something whenever itpicks up task whenever it is doing aheartbeat it has to update it in thelog. So we will work with that and theautomation right now we are working onit. Any employee that we are creatingwe'll go to this page integration guideis also functional and as soon as we addmore things here we will update ourintegration guide. So our open flooragents cloud code agents any agent thatyou create can come into thisapplication and use it fully. Okay, thatis the goal. That is what we are tryingto do here. So, I don't think it willwork because uh maybe it is opening upin my actual computer, the one that Ihave on this side, it won't work. So, itwill fail anyway. Port 8080is what it says. But let's see when ifit has access to what's going on, I havean easier time.So we have automationsand we create webfathom meeting web hook.It's okay. Now we'll delete this. Createnew role level violatesour table web hooks. I will copy this.gives me an error when I try to createnew web. So usually when cloud codeworks fully and uh which most of thetime when I'm using it on my computer atleast is it has complete control onbrowser as well. So it would it knows itgoes to the page and it looks at all thebrowser it will click through the webpage scrolls down creates web hook testseverything. So that is much cleanerflow. You don't have to test ityourself. Now it's just kissing and uhpolicy isso it actually finished uh working. Andif you go to our ADAT,I'm not sure if this work withoutrefresh, but we'll try. Okay. Fathom webhook uh one function.Sothe meetings where the meetings your webhooks and uh so I have a web hook secretwhere do I add that?So my Fathom meetings are automaticallyfetched.Where do I add the web hog secret?The API key is in the environmentvariable. Check that. I want to set upanother automationwherewhenever you receive a meeting that saysdiscovery call, I want you tosend that meetingautomatically. Create a task with thedescriptionasking it to create two artifacts.One is a visually pleasing HTML documentwith a proposalum with its own estimatedplaceholder values for uh the contractvalueor um and the second artifact iscreating a prototype a functionalprototype.what with whatever the client asked.So it has to take a transcript andcreate these two artifacts. I want youtocreate a function thatautomatically does that.It will add this promptand adds the entire transcriptin the description.and assigns arrayand um the deadline is the next day.If uh today is March 11th, deadlinewould be March 12th and the priority isurgentand uh it is it has to be in to-do andthe assigne name is Ray R EI.Let's set that function up. So right nowit already set it up as when whenever Ihave a meeting from Fathom, it willautomaticallysend it to this web hub and Lord Goldactually configured the whole thingwithout us doing anything. That'samazing. And the second step what we aredoing right now is we are settinganother function update. I need to dothree things. Update the Fathom web hookto include transcripts currentlydisabled. Add new processing functionfor discovery calls task creation.Update the edge function to handlecreating tasks with transcript.Sothree todoand umonce that's donewhat I would do is obviously we cannotsimulate a discovery call now. So Iwould use one of the past discoverycalls. Let's say u we go back to myso let's hit refresh. Yeah, it alreadyconfigured on its own. My recordings,transcript, summary, action items.Perfect. So, we'll go here and go todiscovery.So, we go here and uh we can pick acall. Maybe share link is enough.Um what I will do isgo here.Once you are done with uh setting thatup, I want you tosimulate umthis function. Assume that you alreadyreceiveda discovery call which I'm sharing thefathom share link. Um, use your API,Pathom API to fetch the transcript,action items and everything for thiscall and create a task for Ry sayingthat he needs to createboth HTML proposaland umuh the prototype.So discovery call to task automation asdiscovery call payload fx main containsdiscovery call case insensitiveformat transcript. So it created somefunctions to figure that out. We are notusing AI here and then we are askingthis. So you're done with setting thatup. I want you to simulate thisfunction. Assume that you're so it isfetching the transcript for