get to this point wedon't really have that kind of time towork on it here right now it's bit plainbut it worksThe good news web hook is receivingevents. I can see two post heads. Uhdelivered opened events aren't comingthrough this message. Your recent webhook is likely only subscribed to emaildeliver email opened. Quick fix need uhneeded in recent dashboard. Go to webhooks of easy.Uh now let me build a futuristic datavisualizers. So I don't think I can doanything on um here because it says allevents and email delivered, email sent.Okay.Edit endpoint.I will just add all of these. Domaincreated, domain updated.Okay, I see where this is going. Emailclick email complaint. Email fieldopened, received, scheduled,send, suppressed.Okay, why is itokay? It is all events then.Uh why does it not show open? To receiveemail open event, go to domain andenable tracking for your domain. Okay,so I need to go to domains and enabletracking. How do I do that? Open. Thenif I click tracking,open tracking.And uh yeah, so I need data more thananything. Even if it's not recommended.Perfect. We have that's why it's notworking. When it happens next, it willshow us that. Okay. Let's be preparedfor the next phase. So the next phase isI want you to add one more component.You can call this prospecting lead genenwhatever module toour nova AISR.So the way we should do that is we willask the user to starta campaign or something in this screenand when they click on start thecampaign you will ask them to describeeitherin natural language who they want totarget or we give them set of niche,company size, all the basicthings that you would need for creatinga lead genen campaign. And once the userenters their natural language or inputsthings,we need to take that and search.We need to turn that query or thatselection into a search and go to applyAPI FY to scrape the leads that fit thecriteria and bring them back to ourcampaign leadsdatabase that you need to create. So weare adding three pages maybe. One is thecampaign creation wizard for lead genen,whatever you want to call it. And thenthe actual leads with the campaign nameand their respective tags if they arelaw firms, if they're insurance or realestate, all of that. And to do this, Igave you the appy API key and Kimmy APIkey from Moonshot. Now let's use KimmyK2.5 thinking to convert this naturallanguage instruction toa searchable query on ampify. So findscrapers that we can use with the freeplan. Eventually once we get to paidplan we will look for sophisticatedscrapers um well-known scrapers but thisis the MVP phase one. So let's buildthat.And once you have the campaign,the next step is once we have the leads,any agent, you, Budji orRey or any future agent that we canimplement can createa campaign using the leads. So we haveto set it up like that. You have to setthe integration guide. So it showsclearly how agents can use Novaand uh createthese email campaigns usingthe leads list that we generated. Let'sset it up. So that is almost like abrain dump. It is a really big prompt asyou can see. And um usually you won't beable to figure it out if umyou are justmaybe it's a good idea if I just addthis into one of theresources which I do probably AI isupgrade I will make a note of that codehas finished building so prospecting tabwire to nobodyand added a user no use nova prospectcampaigns. So the text is a bit smallbut uh AI SDR the prospecting iscomplete. So when I go here and if I goto prospecting I can see a bunch ofthings. Okay I asked for more actually Iasked for leads section as well. Maybethey added they're added here. So, newprospect campaign.Let's dolaw firms in Vancouver.Okay. Who are you targeting?Any law firm in Vancouver, Canada withat leastfive lawyers or more. Uh these can bepersonal injury lawyers, family lawyers,estate planning, criminal, anyone ingreater Vancouver area.And we want at least 100 results.Preview search strategy. And we areusing query conversion fail errormessage. I will take a screenshot or youcan copy this. Click okay. So the way weare doing the API calls is wrong. So itmight be looking at cloudboard should beable to figure it out. On the off chanceit didn't uh we will give the APIdocumentation so it does the rightthing. So essentially what superbaseproject yet okay that is the issueand I'm not sure if you're seeing thisokay once we obviously upload it willprobably give my key and thenchat so I will pause it and I willupdate it I've set both the keysso usually if you are building usingcloud code or any builder for thatmatter, you should it should be able todo this. The only reason my agent wasunable to do that secret part is the MCPserver is linked to another project. TheCLI is linked to a different project. Sowhen you have this disconnect it willtry and update it but most times itwon't work. So we go to op centerit is testing on its own but I will seelaw firms in Vancouverany law firm personal injury familyestate planning in greater Vancouverarea with at least five lawyers or more.And we do 100 and preview.Okay.Temperature only oneallowed for this or something.Okay. We have been getting some errors.Okay. It already figured out the errorand some it says it's fixed it. Okay.Something went wrong.You have the op center.Again, same old story,Vancouver law firms,personal injury law firms in Vancouver,Canada with at leastuh five employees also include familylawyers, estate planning and any otherattorney in greater Vancouver area. andwe say 100 peopleand previewfingers crossed.Let's see if it had worked. Finally,it has worked. So, 12 search queries andwe can create a campaign. So, we areusing Google map scraper. But when Iclick on create campaign, nothing ishappening or is happening.I think I clicked it twice or maybethree times if I remember. It's a bug weneed to fix. But when we search, we havean error when we are running. Yeah, ifit was that easy, everyone would buildthis.So our to-door done isI you don't believe me? This is some ofthe dumbest mistakes we can make. When Iwas copying my API G, I had thisthought. Okay, there is this space. Willthat be an issue? But I didn't changeit. I just left it as is. And the issueis it was saved with a trailing tabcharacter. And that's why it's notreading the key, right? So be mindful ofspaces, escape characters, tabcharacters. they will mess these secretsup, these files up. So, Kim K 2.5converts natural language intostructured search queries and API willdo its job. So, previously, if youremember, we were stuck on this messageand it's running. Maybe the other onewill run. Oh, my video is actuallyblocking this. I don't see any.Let's refresh the whole thing.Why is it just loading?Or maybe this is even better. Let's dothis instead.Oh, wow. Prospectingand Oh, it actually went and wow, itactually went ahead and Oh, okay. Onlythree, which is Miami, Florida, which isweird. Okay, it's a test that um thisretry retry remember I said three Imight have accidentally did three that'sexactly what happened so don't clicksave bunch of times is the lesson hereso I will retry this and it did not workmaybe I'll give it a second so it runsmaybe it's an app ify thing or whilethat is going on Um we can run thiswhich is searching scraping notsearchingand uh if we find 100 then that'samazing on view leads it says completedfor some reason uh there are only sixlawyers really okay we have soand we have h brewing companyyeah that that's how you scrape andcreate these campaigns new prospectcampaign. Okay, maybe I want to usecreate campaignsusing this leadsand I don't want to right now but I'mjust saying if I go to integration guideand I copy the entire guide and go to myopen flow agent.Hello Ray. U we just start added a newfeature in our Asian command center. Youcan now create campaigns or send emailcampaigns. Can you review this and letme know if you what campaigns you see onum Nova email campaign, email employeeor AISDR.Again, you can use a lot of um naturallanguage for this. I did not think Icopied the entire guide when I clickedthat. So if did now if this didn't work,I'll probably have to. So I copied theentire guide from here, came back,pasted it to Ray,and umwe'll see if this works. No, you can ifyou are using open flaw for long enoughyou would know no meansdoesn't mean anything. Okay. Oops. Andnow uh and we have two emails sentone email opened.one email clicked or it says zero butbecause we haven't turned on our emailsbut if we go to prospecting we can seeview leads is he is in here somewhereand umwe'll need to make our open claw agentheystatus.So we got the responsethree leads imported six leads imported.So my question to you is if Ior completed campaigns,can we take them and uh you createa campaign,send these six leads,emails,trying topromote our AI agencyvertical systemsand uh trying to book them, book a callwith them. So we will be personalizingthese campaigns like a lot using theirinformation that we found on Google ortheir website. Andwe would try anduse copyrighting best practices to sendthese emails and you would be in chargetorun these email campaigns.What do you think? How can we set thisup best?So, usually I like to have thisdiscussion with my claw codian. And onceI get a response because that's what Itrust, that's what I believe have mostknowledge about my business, my agency.because we are doing this in a testphase and I want to make this like astar of the show open floor I'm askingthis so right now we have seen thedispatch mechanism you post a job oncanband board picks it up open droppicks it up does the work sends it overnow same for the phone call any job anycampaign anything you can createit has instructions. So anytime it isreceiving an inbound call, it will spinup an agent. Anytime it has to do anoutbound call when a form is triggered,it will do it. The same thing we need tocreate an email agent that will youcreate the campaigns using your naturalvoice language and all of that and itwill scrape and the scraper itself. Weare only using Google map scraperbecause that's free. But if you go onelevel higher like a wall of scraper,LinkedIn sales navigator scraper and allof these really good scrapers that are abit more expensive if you have a paidplan you can do amazing things. So myopinion this feature is worth using butwin is not blast campaigns. So when iscompleted prospect campaign structuredresearch personalized outbound bookedcalls that's the actual machine. If youwant I can do the next concrete stepright now. Whatever we are doing we needto work on the SOP. We need to make thisa repeatable process. If cron and damonis the way to go let's do that. If youhave other approaches, I'm all ears. Andum yes, we are drafting, we are takingthe pro completed prospect campaign andwe are doing structured research on eachprospect and we are doing personalizedoutbound and we have all theinfrastructure. We are using resend. Uhthe key is already set. You should havepicked that up um from the integrationguide. So that is the key. Pro movefive. There is a founder named Ernesttowho built an agent called Eddie. AndEddie is making him real money. $70,000a month across 11 apps. Here's whatEddie does. He runs four facelesscontent accounts. Still still images,text overlays. Um you know, the sameformula as the top pages gettingmillions of views. So he scouts um Ihave all the posts here I just you cango through that every single thing butthe I prepared the summary because itdoesn't make sense for me to go througheverything right um he has been talkingabout or talked abouta lot of times so bottom line he scoutsinfluencers on Instagram I mean um thesame formula based on for you knowfollower count uh niche average views hescrapes their emails from their bios hesends a thousand outreach emails everysingle day and 100 DMs a day so hehandles customer support he reportsdaily KPIs views organic versus paidsales you know what's we are spendingand what revenue we are getting soErnesto was looking at you know paying a$3,000 a month or sorry $30,000 a monthagency to manage all of this becausehe's doing content, he's doing outreach,he's doing analysis, a lot of things,right? Um so and he actually had theentire growth sheet uh from how it looksfrom the day he started using a openflaw and today and he made like $70,000something some insane 70k a month noteven justa a one time thing. So that's thebuilder orchestrator executor patternfrom chapter 12 and SDR pipeline we justbuilt. It's the same architectureapplied to content and influenceroutreach. And if you want to go contentroute they we already have a skill forthat. If you go to this skill, uh youcan see this typing npx playbooks adskill uh/killcontent-achine.It will research, write, repurpose,score and publish content across everyplatform. It even remembers your brandvoice. I'm actually doing a series afterthis which will we will make AI employeeafter AI employee based on some of thebiggest use cases on X, Reddit andLinkedIn, YouTube. We we are going allin. We are building AI employees becausethese people share a lot of insights butthere is a no there is no real plan onhow to implement this in your business.So that's what we are going to do. Ifyou don't want to miss that, hitsubscribe. What is the next step? Oncewe figure this out, we will once we goto the actual daily digest or crown job,I will talk about all the incrediblethings we can build here and morethings. I will it will be more of awhere I am explanation kind of sessionnot a actual implementation or build aswe go because these are some of thethings that I want to build in my schoolcommunity on weekends where we explorewhere we take whatever we are buildingto next levelmaking these continuous improvements oncampaigns means meetings, action itemhelpers where you know you have all theemail call and um lead magnet proposalall the generators right there and youcan take any meeting and click on actionitem helper and all of the jobs are donefor you. How amazing is that? So it isdo this as Damon fest with crown supportprobably pure not pure crown only puremanual only uh I will just read what'sgoing on here it has a bunch of phasesphase one is trigger detection novastatus complete optional filter outboundready false primary de loop every fourto 5 minutes backup chron reconciliation15 to 30 minutes. Create an outbound joband mask campaign as processing outboundequal to true. This prevents duplicateexecution.Since we havePuji as our builder,our um cloud code agent, do you want anything that you need to change in termsof superbase or way the project is setup right now or do you have all the SOPdocument and do you have everything toimplement this plan? So this is keybecause if Ry is going and blind or someof these issues have betterways you know bettersuited to build on superbase we arewasting our time because Superbase isthis you know always online you can usemultiple agents you can create web hooksand all of that but for this you have tokeep your machine on. I have enough todefine SOP and implementation safely. Nosuperb base changes needed.Um SOP design. Yes, I have enough. Ialready have. Uh what I still need toverify before implementation.Okay.So our pointso I want to just copy this. Let's playtelephone again and go to our plot code.Give this the steps. And what plot codedoes now is it will look at completeanswer R gave our orchestrator and thenthink about okay what does he need andwhat can I do to help and implement allof those things by itself without askingany permission. As you can see, it willdo all of that. And once it's done, itwill ask me or it will tell me that isthe key. It will tell me this is whatit's done. I take the same thing to Rayand just paste it and he can execute theplan from his end. And that is theworkflow.If you are only doing it with open floormainly you don't have to play thistelephone but my personal experience hasbeen you will run into all kinds oftrouble and doing this approach youdon't really need chat GPT 5.4 forCodeex for doing all of this. Even Kimik2.5 or Deepseek or reallyevensome of the models that you can probablyKimik 2.5 Deep Seek even HighQ model canhandle this to a point.But if you are using HighQ, you willprobably need toleave thecontent generation piece with agentslike cloud opetand they create the campaign it willimplement the campaign. So you need tothink about this strategically. You needto think about okay what model is goodfor doing what things and then go fromthere. Okay, lobo came back and uhmissing missing missing working. Okay,now there are a bunch of there's thefull phase verification complete schemaaudit for Nova outbound SOP and now wehave Lexus and existingprospect and bandling recommended schemaadditions. This gives you pre enrichmenteverything else payment from approval ispure application code on top of theHTML. Yeah, let's go ahead and implementthis.I know this is a really big task. So, wecan expect some 10 todos here becauseall of the changes that you are seeinghere missing is a feature in and ofitself. So, yeah. Umonce that is done we will take whateverit's generated copy the whole thing andgive it to Ray and Ray will take care ofthe restwhich is our open law.So all done. Here's a summary ofeverything completed.Have everything. I'll copy this and theintegration guide as well. And go toopen law.I'll paste this and I'll pastethe integration guide that we have.Andlawr.So, for some reason, what's beenhappening is I've set up a Discordtrending rights of my YouTube videoson another application for this agent. Imade this new Mac Mini just so it couldresearch a bit of researchYouTube trends and um use that to sendme a Discord notification. And thesedays, when I say these days, past 3 to 4days, it's unusual. As soon as I seesomething after a break, it is sendingme alert anal. I need to fix it. And Iit's a script as you can see.That's all right. You got the coreimplementation in place. You alreadyhave B1 outbound engine.And what this means we can move fromdesigning the SOP to