and skills etc.So I haven't talked about skills at all.I don't know why because you know skillsaround openflow were one of the mosttalked and most used topics because ifyoulook at how it started there was a hugesecurity issue happening around skillsand then you they partnered up with somesecurity company and now skills are safeand there are guidelines on how to usethose skills. So I stop relying on theskills completely. Whenever I needintegration, I do it myself. I make myagent figure it out. If you look at theclaw buddy application that we build, wehave something called forge and it cantake YouTube, it can take URL, it cantake API docs, it can take MCP spec ortext. What it does is it breaks down thevideo and gives me what I can build fromthis video. I can build a s schoolcommunity sync skill MCP server schoolweb hook bridge and I can build. So thisis what op center app this is anautomation. This is an edge function.This is a make scenario. This is a tool.So essentially I stopped completelydepending on outside skills and startbuilding my own. That's how I ended upwith 36 skills and more. And we are alsoworking on Asian teams for contentrepurposing, pitch tech building,proposal response, competitiveintelligence, AI advisory board. Andthese teams are a combination of agents.And all of this will be covered in mynext master class which is applaudedcode master class which will be evenmore detailed. And I'm going to show youhow you caneasily clone whichever SAS tools thatyou are using whether that's automationplatforms whether that's text expanderswhether that's you know a bunch of toolsyou can think of can be cloned orreplaced by building your own apps ownsolutions. That's what the teams aremade for and that's what this is for.You can. So, for example, this schoolMCP server web hook bridge communitydashboard for this exact build, we werepaying $300 a month for an app that doesthese things and we were able to buildit in 2 days using flot code and openflow. How amazing is that? So, we willsee that. Let's see where the process isright now.And uh once ourmodule is imported over to myagent command hub, I willcontinue and test and buildthe flow where we prompt open claw agentto make the cloud code agent work. Ourfl our builder went ahead and dideverything that we asked. So you can seethe agent ray what are they capable ofwhat they're doing in terms ofoperations and our claw agent what it isdoing what the skills are when was lastonline. Right now I'm asking you to fixthat issue saying I want you to enteryour polls 3 to 5 minutes so you canshow that you're online and update theintegration guide as well so they everyagent can set it uh set its own uhprofile and then we have coms. We haveability for agents to communicatebetween each other. There is thiscouncil feature what we need to bediscussing what the agents need to bediscussing with uh in among themselvesand give me an answer. And we haveorchestrationwhere one agent gives work to the otheragent and it work step by step and allthe safety features that are block uhblocked commands and configured hookslike pre-ompact save everything that Iwas talking about previously it sobefore compacting the conversationit would have saved and let's see if Ican find that hook somewhere because itis uh we linked it here. We built thisapplication.Let's see in a log if they have okayand they um it's not Sherlock. I'm notseeing the bji my code agent is notleaving many uh AI logs which we allchange personally but I'm more focusedin working these two things and um yeahonce that is done we will ask somethingI want to show you the web hook featurethat we deployed yesterday and the webhook Q if you look at the Phantom webhook And uh these web hooks areprocessed like 6 hours ago, 10 hoursago, 23 hours ago. And if you look at myop center application and gene meetingassistantand uh come down the number is wrong. Itwill need to update. But this is themeeting that you haven't seen yesterday.This is the last meeting you've seen.All the two meetings that I had today isshowing up here. 8:00 a.m. I had ameeting and 11:00 a.m. I had a meeting.And each one had five actions and fiveactions. And I can probably ask foraction item helper. And um I can foremail we will email and for reviewingcloud repo and cloud code. uh we willsome of the action items are for me someof the action item for client we willhave everything right I can build on topof it that is my intentionso where are we going with this in thisautomations I want to add one more fieldwhich will be chron jobs okay so Whatdoes our chron jobs do?The next feature I want to add is chronjobs. So the idea iswe have totake everything that happened todaywhether that's meetings whether that'semail campaignsanything that happened the AI log uh ifit's repetitive you need to summarize itjust not the raw text but people takeall of that info and create a dailydigest. These are the meetings you had.These are the action items. This is yourbattle plan for the day. And uh thisthese are the action items. Youshouldn't forget. And we reached out tolet's say 10 people and this manyopened, this many clicked. So thecomplete intelligence of everything thatis happening, all the lessons learned,everything from your memory, agentmemory, all of that should be compiledand sent to me at an 8 a.m. Pacificemail before I start my work. So set upthat chrome job and that chrome jobshould live in automations and in thechron job section and we are usingsuperbase for it and I want you to setit up in such a way thatother agents can make API calls and uhcreate the chron jobs as well.So that is a big ask.Right now we have been building featureafter feature. Other people they arejust getting feather or play just I'mnot saying they're doing anything wrongbut there is so much more you can do andthis is just the beginning and wehaven't even talked about all thefeatures that I have here. So if youlook at here in my op center I haveresearch and I have self improving brainon it. I connected it my calendar. Thereis research things URL research topicresearch and if you look at some of thecommand center applicationsI had autonomous brain somewhere. Is itin automations?So autonomous brain his shallow brain islearning every 3 hours. So the log isnot being updated here. But when I go tomy email every 3 hours that is happeningmy agent will learn my agent will lookat what's working what is not andeverything.So right now race says head it's offlineand uh what is going on with inbuilt theproject ref is j let me add updated thatcolumn. Okay now it is doing someimprovements in terms of um the APIguide. So right now agent status basedon when they showed up last the light isturning on. You can see that in realtime. Uh if if I go here, last scenestatus just now. And anytime Ray doesthis like 6:20 p.m. Right now it's 6:21,right? Since we have a heartbeat, Raywill show up online. Since my claudianbuji is working also, we will have andthese alignment scores is based on bunchof things. what we have in logs, what wehave in tasks and how much work is beingdone and if we have more tasks that aredone alignment will go up and all thememory all the uh if it's up to markalignment will go up and we can have abutton that's you know reassess. Sowe can increase the score too. So youcan see what the alignment is from therepo that I shared earlier. If you gohere, it will talk about all the 25files and what this alignment check is.It runs 12 health checks, produces 0 to100% score with the letter G grade A, B,C, D, pushes the result to dashboard.That is what it's actually doing. Okay,we have that and this system is working.Next up, I want to buildwhat we were trying to build earlier,the automation, the daily digest.Okay, all three tasks are done. Butright now I want to do this umautomations feature and cron jobsfeature. So why not use how regularpeople are using cron jobs on open clawyou can that's what I did and I havesome chron jobs as you can see not somea lot of crown jobs and uh it isskipping few and I the worst thing Ibelieve I should do is remove thesedaily digest they are not really addinganyvalue right now.You can create daily digest and you canintegrate with discord fairly easily. Iwill add a simple video on how to createmulti- aentarchitecture in GitHub. I will do thatin the next section. And the funny partis I just sit here and I will make myagents build that. So I will ask thecloud code agent I will log into GitHuband say hey build this for me and I willactually make it you know the only twotimes that I get involved is when Iclick I'm human and it will doeverything after that. Soyou have a dedicated line for cloudcode. You have a dedicated line for Ryyour open claw agent. As soon as you tagopen law agent, it will start speakingto you and it's so cool, so amazing. Itis umreallyso easy that an AI agent can set that upfor you. So it finished the chron jobthat we asked. Instead of anthropic APIkey for now, use Kimmy K 2.5 that wealready have. And also we have uh resendAPI key alreadyedge function and your environmentvariable digest recipient email is m a ni atgrowth creators.ai.So let's see how the UI looks for thesecrown jobs. Let's refresh the pageand uh we go toautomations and chron jobs and we havedaily intelligence report.Right now it is supposed toinclude all of this meetings no extratasks tasks agent reports and everythingand I think based off of that it willfor to create a report that we can getactual value from. I don't think QAK 2.5is a bad model by any means. We'll see.Now, it has finished building thisautomations chron job everything that Iasked. So, when you go tothe automationsand chron job, you can see when was itlast like 9 minutes ago. And uh when Igo here even without prompting anythingit made I wouldn't say this is perfectbut imagine getting the number meetingsthat you had and your outreach on agentsthat day email voice how many leads thatare generated what is the average openrate and everything how many replies andmeetings action items today send leadlist end of the day deadlineEmail Ty Harrison regarding dev emailaccess and sashahas sent loom video plot code or amplifyand amplify every single thing trendsand anomalies Alexa failing all sixcalls hung up immediately email deliverygap only 60% delivery rate uh new leavepolicy active and unsubmitted timesheets now equal to unpaid Leave oneemployee already hit with somereduction. So quick wins closer closeGary setup loop send lead list and uhsend out resources. So this is a dailydigest a good digest in my opinionbut this can be significantly improved.Now imagine we are integrating this withproject memory and agent memory. Noweveryone knows, everyone is learning,everyone is improvingon especially open flaw your cloud codagent everyone is learning doing a loton. So this automation chron job we askokay daily setron to review all themeetings and create objection handlingpost based on discovery calls. Createobjection handling post based on clientcalls. Create case study post based onthis. do that and take everything thatyou have from the campaign, the emailcampaign, learn about it, see what kindof emails are performing well and doubledown on that type of campaigns.You see the kind of possibilities thatwe can build with this. And we are onlyscratching the surface. This is not even10% of everything that we've built. Ourown automations, the chron jobs that webuilt. Sherlock brain, meeting Intelprocessor, competitor inter midday prep,morning digest, evening report witheverything. I can see all of this andhow many hours next in about 7 hours.Midday prep in 7 hours. Morning digestin 15 hours every single day. andSherlock brain last was 2 hours ago andnext one is in 1 hour and so far it ran87 times and daily competitive Intel run20 times 16 times every single day Ireceive things that I want to see andlike I said barely scratching thesurface creator command my YouTubeanalytics everything about my channelhow it's doing what are the keywords.What are my competitors doing?What are the ideas that I should beworking on? And each idea I can have achat with agent and I can ask agentquestions and it can answer me back. Andthen I have the pipeline, I have thescripts, I have the intel feed, I havethe outlier feed around 200 videos, whycertain videos are going viral and howmany views per hour that is currentlygetting. And it also scrapes thecomments, what confusion, difficulty,top viewer questions, what a lot ofdesigners who want to learn how to codedon't realize how much easy it is. Everycomment that has gotten a lot of likeswill show up here and each video willhave a strategic takeaway. Why and how Ican repurpose this video and redo thisvideo to get more viewson my channel. So for every video wehave that and all of my competitors whowant to you know who I want to emulatewho I want to track who I want to seeyou know what kind of videos they areproducing so we can replicate similarvideos and identity raw world okaywe are going a bit off topic there butyou can see the kind of agents that wecan build I'm planning to launch ameetup online inperson meetup group andvenues and sponsors. AI Open Clawresearched everything for me and itcreated the outreach campaign. As soonas I click send, it will reach out tovenues. It will reach out to sponsors.It will negotiate with them. It willhave all it can use any AI employee andmake this launch happen. That is thegoal. And you can build amazingsolutions like that. And I feel like twoMac minis are not enough. You need more.So that is where I want to stop this ProMove 8. This is the one that will saveyou hours of debugging. We've alreadyseen something like this in thebeginning. When we are giving a task inthe canban board, we face this. When youare setting up any other chron jobs foranything complex, morning briefs, emailscans, multi-step workflows, do not runtasks directly in your heartbeat chron.It will fail 100% failed. I tried toincrease the timeout a lot, but itdoesn't work. It will time out and fail.So, a guy on Reddit also spent weeks. Istopped at a day, a few hours, but hespent weeks learning this the hard way.The fix is simple. You spawn a subagent. You spawn a worker and you don'tdo heartbeat which uh runs complex taskdirectlywhich doesn't run complex task directly.I don't know why it says that but doheartbeat font will spawn sub agent. Subagent run the tasks. Okay. Uh let theheartbeat just be triggered. sub agentruns independently, handles its owncontext and doesn't time out. So the onechange took him from constant failuresto zero issues. And one more thing, backup your open law folder weekly. I don'tcare how you do it, chron job, batchfile, whatever. I do that using promptand using uh subway edge functionsand you won't lose it. And I know peopleif you look at some of the pro movesthat we were seeing earlier, people aredoing it every 6 hours and every week umdeep dive and every day like automatedbackup using some of the taskulers,Python script and Mac mini. Uh is it toomuch? Is it uh overkill? Maybe. Butthose people and myself included wenever lostagents memory. So that is more importantand I have this link chron jobs and subaents and you can look at read throughthe post see what's happening with thisum how he able to figure out andeverything and you can see the liveexample that we did do uh for our usecaseand we still have that uh discordintegration that I was talking about howI was able to use my builder agentto do all of that and step by stepafter you know I will fast forward thewhole thing maybe 5 minutes or so. Ittook me 30 minutes to set it up but Iwill speedrun in 5 minutes you see thatand see how easy that is just lettingagents do their job and do your job. Andonce I set the Discord up,they started talking to each other.That's the beauty of it. Without furtherado, let's watch that first.Heat. Heat. N.Heat.Heat.Heat. Heat.Heat.Heat.Heat. Heat.Heatuphere.Heat. Heat.Heat. Heat.Perfect. We stopped at success, right?So after that success message I madeSherlock the cloud code agent that builtthis explain what going on how thisdiscord got set up it was you know I didnot record this part all of this wasdone by Asian and it was populating likecrazy quick fast and how messages flowthe clawbody connection that I have andthen Sherlock I was not seeing themonline when I was thinking they aresaying something but it's gone then Istarted Raybot and then it acknowledgedwe are talking about Ray and thenwelcome to the server appreciate it gladto be here and when I say hey look atthis they're talking to me but if Idon't they're not interacting with eachother they are not you know they gooffline so I wanted something nearinstant I if you look at theconversation I actuallygo through the whole thing we currentlydoing this option rebar good questionright now Sherlock only post via restAPI there's no persistent connection sothe bot shows offline on discord toappear online with a green dot we need aprocess that maintain websocket gatewayconnection and we have a bunch ofmethods and then re said option one isthe right move go here and then I triedSherlock tell me a joke Sherlock Shlockhello Raybot hello Raybo mentioned butSherlock didn't get back. So then greatsuggestions by Ray when I asked it tohey check discord it checks again. Sowhen I ask active session it respondsbut as soon as I stop it stops as well.So then to talk to Ray I had toconfigure this part. I just have tofollow two three stepswhich in your in your onboarding justthe way how you added your telegram onceyou selected discord it will ask you fora bot token and gave gives you stepsonce you set that