open claw agent for a subagent, it will send and it will get backthe response. Sure. But if you want tocommunicate, if it's a big task and youwant it to communicate what's going onevery step of the way, give you anupdate, then you have to turn on agentto agent communication. And we'll talkabout that in in the future sections.But these are the foundations that youshould know and basic terminologyforopen claw agents. Promove 3. Memory isthe thing that will break on you at 2:00a.m. and you won't know why. Here's whatone guy did is doing to prevent that.First, you need to run this prompt. Itsays enable memory flush beforecompaction and session memory search inmy uh search in my open flaw config. Setuh compact domemory flush.enabledto true and set memorysearch.experimentalsession memory to true with sourcesincluding both memory and sessions andapply the config changes. And this isreally pretty important and it does itchanges the umit changes our configuration. Yes. Anduhfor those of you who are seeing uh wehave a bit different UI. I'm filmingthis on March 17 and the UI lookssignificantly different. They've added abunch of cool tools like browserautomation and all of that. Uh maybethis master class is too long at thispoint. I will make another session umcovering all of that. Okay, back tomemory flush. What this does is it willforce your agent to flush importantcontext to memory before it compacts.Without this, Open Claw will quietlydrop your most important instructionduring compaction. You won't even noticeuntil your agent starts acting like it'snever met you. And this happened, thesame thing happened to Summer. I think Icovered this somewhere uh in this masterclass how she mentioned not to delete uhbut it was the it it got compacted andopen class started deleting her emailsinstead of preparing for deletion itwent ahead and deleted 200 emails.So what does the second thing uh youknow this person actually backs up hisentire openl folder to super memoryevery 6 hours via trunk and I have thisentire table breakdown in this graphicso you can see that what does he do oncea week once a week he manually auditsmemory um all the memory filesconsolidate duplicates and deletesonetime scripts an agent has to repeatback everything it remembers so he canverify so he knows what's missing andeverything okay and that's I sayobsessive or overkill but he is a guywho hasn't lost the context in weeksright so the takeaway is just back upyour memory and you can read all aboutit here and 21 days ago these postdidn't really get too much engagementthey deserve, but I only included thingsthat are absolutely important. Um, andyou can go through that and uhdo it to a level that you arecomfortable with. That is the key. Ineed to show you something that justdropped like 3 days ago and it's goingto change how you think about everythingwe just covered. OpenCloud just releasedwhat they called context engine plug-ininterface. And here's why it matters.Everything I showed you, soul.md,identity, memory files, and uh thebackup protocol, everything that's thedata layer and you're writing the files.But until now one of the biggestchallenging or most annoying things isyou had zero control how openflowactually reads compresses or recallsthat data. So the engine underneath is ablack box but not anymore. Contextengine gives you six life cycle hooksthat let you control the entire memorypipeline. So bootstrap runs when agentstarts load external data connect ragand we have ingest which will fire whennew context enters filter tag andprioritize. So assemble compact afterturn. I love this last one by the way.Prepare sub aent spawn. It will set upisolated memory for sub aents. But letme break down why this matters. Thecompaction problem we were talking aboutearlier where open clock quietlydropping your most importantinstructions with con context engine youwrite a compact hook that says neverdrop anything tagged as critical. Nomore hoping the default AR algorithmwill drop your soul file. It will alwayskeep it intact. Or say you want youragent to search knowledge base of 500documents before every response.For example, say you write an assemblehook that runs a rag query against yourlocal you know SQL or if you wantsuperbase or postsql doesn't matter. Itwill inject the top five results intothe context before you even start. So,your agent just became an expert oneverything you've ever written. And ithappens before the LLM even sees theprompt. And here's the one that mattersfor production. Prepare sub agent spawn.When your main agent spawns a sub agentwhich we do a lot in a lot of use casesin this course, the sub agent used toinherit whatever context it was given.Now you can write a hook that gives eachsub aent its own isolated memory space.This is huge. So there is clearseparation. Your email agent doesn't seeyour financial data. your coding agentdoesn't see your client conversations oryou you know proposal agent any agentthat you pick so least privilege memorythe same principle as Nemo claw but at acontext level and before versus withcontext engine I said no defaultcompaction no rag integration sub aentshare context blackbox memory hope itworks hope is not strategy you will knowit works. Full life cycle control,isolated memory per sub agent, pluggablerack pipeline and custom compactionrules. So the install is really simple.Context engine is built into openclaw uhversion March 7th or later uh and if youare on a older version update. If youare watching this much later you'regood. Now, are we writing our firstplug-in? To write your first plug-in,you create a JavaScript file in yourPLIN directory that exports the hooksyou want to use. I'm not going to codeone live or use AI uh to build itbecause it's a rabbit hole. I think itdeserves a standalonevideo on its own, but I want you to knowthis exists because when you hit thelimits of default memory system and youwill this is your escape hatch. So thinkof it this way. Everything we covered inthis chapter that's memory 101 and thefiles, the structures, the backupprotocol. But context engine is likememory 201 an advanced class if youwill. You don't need it on day one. Butwhen you are running five agents withdifferent knowledge bases and you needlike precision control, surgical controlover uh what each one remembers,that is how you do it. So your memoryarchitecture is solid. Let's build thedashboard so you can actually see whatyour agents are doing.This is where we are actually buildingusing open flow but not just the firstpart. I will tell you what that means.You might have seen a bunch of peoplealready use their open floor agents todo amazing things. So this is my clawbuddy application by the way. If youwant this you can join my schoolcommunity and forkit with one button. Wehave this is my where place my agentslive. Asian teams left. We have skillsfactory and we have ability for AIasking questions, AI log, what they'redoing, the heartbeat and everything.Identity, their soul files, their memoryfiles, everything daily memory log beingsaved to,you know, where you can open and seewhat they worked on every single day forme. So multiple agent this can be openlyagent this can be cloud code agent orany agent that can use API they can behere. So why am I showing you this? Sothis is what we called and you mighthave seen a bunch of people have thesecanban boards that AI is working and youand AI both working on things. yougiving and end AI building or some ofthe things that are completelyI know being taken care of AI itself. Soto build a board like this or to you canask your agent to build this for you andthey will but they won't be at thislevel. They won't be thisgood looking if you will. So I found outa hack is using if you go back to themaster class it says floatbody live kitlight kit. So light kit is a lightversion of thisjust a prompt and you might be wonderingwhy money what is the even point ofbuilding all of this. So I want to showyou like an interview that I did or ameeting that we had on February 20th. SoI will just ask himhow much revenue did this systemgenerate for Brianand I will ask uh this question and a$35,000 change order for a clientproject uncovered issues that led to 30%less jobs being ported at expired rates.Brian mentioned he may send another19,000 invoice for the work the AIcompleted. So in total, the AI systemgenerated at least 54,000 in revenue forBrian within 4 days. Can you imagine AIgenerating 54,000new revenue in 4 days? It blows my mind.And if you look at this system, one ofthe op center applications is meetingintelligence. Brian's meeting, itanalyzed around 30 meetings. But if youlook at me, I have 1,614meetings that AI can analyze and buildthings around. I can say pick all thediscovery calls and based on all thediscovery calls, see if I missed anyfollow-ups or any action items, what canI what should I have done differently?So it has access to which day or monththat I have been having meetings, who Ihad more meetings with, what are thebusiest days of the week, what are theleast busiest days and all of thoseinsights, all of those things and I cantake those meetings to generate actionitems, to generate proposals, and that Ican send clients, I can generate leadmagnets directly from this. So, a lot ofthings that you can build here and uhand this is just one application and wehave email employees that can sendpersonalized emails on your behalf andit tracks every single thing thathappened. If it you know how many ofthem opened, how many of them deliveredor how many of them bounced, open rate45%, clickthrough rate 12%, reply rate0%. and bounced 126 emails bounced. Andhow did we get this email and all theseemails? We actually did a leadenrichment. And lead enrichment, weuploaded uh LinkedIn contacts just likethat and it validated and it's enrichedand found all of these for free. All ofthese leads for free. and anyapplication that you're seeing will adda lot of we are talking about realbusiness value here. So enough of theapplica um explanation I talked aboutthe system right now it's time to buildit for yourself your own version of thiswe will build that now we can go backhere and uh this prompt gives you thescaffolding the full UI shell with alltabs pages and navigation it saysstarting point will connect real dataintegrate superbase and wire up agentsin sections that follow so what we areessentially doing is we have the commanddeck, we have agent profiles, we havecanban board, we have AI log, Asiancouncil, meeting intelligence, premiumdesign. So we are copying this promptand going to any you can go to a lovablepro uh or bolt or anything that you anyvibe coding platform that you can thinkof and usually they will give you freecredits, right? five credits or so theywill give you and if you are you know ifyou someone refers you you get 10 morebonus credits so 15 credits I should weshould be able to we can probably makethis work with um five credits I'll showyou so I will paste the prompt and ifyou want to change the name here you canI don't want to add the word light kitAnd uh instead of claw buddy you can doit in any right now it is emerald greenthe old one was red so I don't mind uhit's being green right so I will justhit send right now it says thinking andthis is what you should be seeing notblank screen awaiting furtherinstructions.So I'll build body a future com cardsemerald accents and animatedtransitions. Perfect. Getting ready.This says awesome. So next up we havewe don't have to wait for it. If you goback while this scaffolding is gettingready we can work on our integrationguide. So we are building this shellright. So what happens once you buildit? You have to find a way to bring thatshell into your open floor to giveaccess to your open floor.How do you do that? You do that byauthenticating by connecting GitHub. Soyou can copy this command and you can goto your terminal and in the terminal youwill once you run thisit says where do you use google uhgithub.comgithub uh https authenticate with yourgithub yes and login with web browserand um it will give you a code right youcopy this codeand this is important important and youhit enter. You'll open a browser. Clickcontinue and uh paste it. Continue.Authorize GitHub.When you're ready, trigger a mailer.Umtrigger a mailer to verify your identityand I will go once to my Gmail.So, congratulations, you're all set. Sojust like that I connected uh my GitHubI already logged in but just uh I wantedto. So now that you just logged in withhump in your CLI your openflow will haveaccess to it and I can check do you haveaccess to my GitHuband it will say yes. Do you want me toclone anything copy anything?Usually if you don't want tonow loable finish generating it looksclean it looks um we have the tabs wehave a console we have u meetings whichis nice it has everything that Iactually asked forwhat we are buildingI want a visual overhaul I want thisapplication to be like a millionhasit. We should have a sidebar menu and uhupgrade the header. Add some gloss morphdesigns. Uh add some hover and glowanimationsthroughout the application.Make a comprehensive plan for thesesteps. And ummake sure this is all mock data and uhhowever many features that you caninclude and build in one phase. do. Thereason I said it is because it is atrick that I use with Lable. The lastfew tokens, even if you have, let's say,0.3 tokens, you can probably build someof the amazing applications with justthat one, two tokens. Right now, I'llsee the plan, what it does, and I wedon't even have to read the plan. It'sjust the idea is the plan. I explainedit in natural language but in a way AIunderstands or um you have to tweak itin a way that the model itself willunderstand. So visual overhaul planmillion dollar SAS upgrade. So I will dothis and I don't think it would takelonger than 5 minutes and uh four fivecredits but I will show you what it'spossible if we left with few or at leastone or two tokens. I will show you it isdone now. It has a sidebar and uh it hasnotifications. All of these are notworking really. And it has a logo that'snot great, but it has a good skeletonscaffolding that we can use and probablywork with AI log, which looks nice for afirst run and to use like a basis forwhat's to come. Okay. And this is a goodstarting point. And if you look at um westill have two left. So what can we dowith these two? Now we can take them befor the time being. We will come backmaybe in the middle of uh the in themiddle of building this we will ask openclaw if we should go here and buildsomething. And thetutorial is not about loable but aboutum open claw right. So we will connectGitHub and it will ask for which GitHubvolume lovable add organization and ifyou have already logged in to yourGitHub in this browser to willautomatically connect it and once it'sdone continue connect and transferanyway it's just setting up a two-waysync and once this is done you will justcopy this and I have made a claw buddyversion for us to work with. Here's thelink. And I know myimage is covering this. Let me just hitenter. Should be fine. Usually it'sskew. Send the link and I'll review itright away. And then we base the link.And uhit will do this by the time it finishesthis. We will u just ask okay we willbuild one by one fe uh feature byfeature one by one or something. Beforewe start I want to give or show you howto almost give your open clawsuperpowers.What do I mean by that isbeing able to control browser. This isamazing. Um Iknow it's not not being taughteverywhere. I know most people know thisbut lot of people don't know this too.So to let open law control your browserwe call it open flaw browser relay. Sowe can so verify it bugs. Okay. Uh thefirst thing that I would look for isso Chrome extension browser relay youneed to first run this prompt. You needto install it. I already installed mine.So even if I do install the same commandV you run this it will installautomaticallyyour personal assistant minus as okaycopied to clipboard. Now it actuallywherever it installeduh it copied to clipboard. Soif it doesn't or it did already we areprinting that path right? So this is theextension path open browser chromeextension.So if you want to open it because is aclosed folder right? Most people don'tknow how to open it or uh don't youcan't even find the browser folder orChrome extension folder because it's dotopen. So whatever path it's about thereyou just paste open users rate all ofthat and click enter and when you clickenter it opens the chrome extension thisI just need to copy the whole thing anduh create a new folder because it's noway to navigate to this folder um sohow do you set up after that so you goto your chrome Chrome extensions.Once you go here, Chrome extensions, youneed to click on load unpack andwhichever folder you created, you clickon open. And once you open, it will openup here. And when you are reloading, itwill ask for a token. What do you dowhen it asks you for token? That thoseare the steps that I've written here.Also, I have a question about thegateway token. Is it something the userhave to setmanually or is it something we would getfromopen flow?So I said this right and uh it fixed allthe issues. You set it manually viaenvironment openl doesn't fetch one fromremote service for you. So this is newsfor me because I thought okay gateway atoken is already set. I have to queryit. I have to find out and then I haveto update it. That was what I wasthinking and then I tried this. I triedthat and figured out no you have to sellit yourself. So if you just follow theseinstructionsyou know liketo the tea. If you just run this and setyour own token and then you run this setyour own token, the same token by theway and then you run all these four stepum you know all of these