five.Complete the purchase and then reviewthe result. So send got the transactionhas get the transaction has umcomplete purchase with proof of payment.You mention uh can you provide to shouldI create? So, we managed to make it workfinally. Apparently, we ran out of gas.Um, so I was telling it to first itsaid, "I did not find the API key pastein the chat." And I said, "I ran thisecho um prompt. Can you check?" And thenit said, "Yes, I found it. Um, but I'vebeen running into gas issues. You don'thave you have zero eat for gas." And Iwas under the impression you don't needgas on L2. The gas is so negligible. Butat 000000it is 0 cents, but you still need that0.0000thing. So finally what manage uh what Imanaged to do is open my wallet and swapUSDC to ETH uh like 15 cents worth of itand then I um started this again andwhen I did that now I asked it to tryagain and it did um then contractanalysis results high. Um so transactioncomplete and these are the results wegot and um this is actual and if youwant to verify this hash or you can lookin the if you go to the site of what wewere building earlier and refresh youshould be able to see the updated volumeat buying 0.5 worth of um things from RAOkay. And if we open it, the transactionhash is 952. If you open it, 952. Sothis is an actual transaction betweentwo AI agents. And that is amazing in myopinion. And uh that is how you wouldbuild or we can I can show you the othermachine where we can right now we havewhat 1 2 3 seven services. I will makethat AI actually um list one moreservice. Let's see. So this is an agentarray that we deployed. This is GUI. Umthen I've been running on my Mac mini.So it say this is the wallet address anduh we will instruct we have a set oftasks for this. So if we send it andwhat we are doing here is contractreview service for 0.5 uh it's alreadythere right and um we will say nametaken let me try h variation now this isgood u now what we will do is I actuallymixed up the order I was supposed to dothis first and do that second so it isan AI agent and buying from this nowlive aliwas taken contract review. So let's seeif that is the case. You have claw aliand we review that is the only checkthat needs to be done. Contract reviewlegal agent. Voila. That's how twoagents can transact on the marketplacethat we built. And um that's it for thistutorial. But in the next one, I willshow you how to do the escrow, how to dothe transactions, how to take apercentage cut between these two um youknow buyer and seller. So you can makesome money as a platform too. And thatis it. 23 chapters. If you made it here,you know more about deploying OpenClawin production than 99% of the people whoever installed it. So let me tell youexactly what you built and you didn'tjust learn a tool you built aninfrastructure. So for the foundationyou have security, memory and tokens andfor the brain you have business brainthat is level 1 2 3 based on where youare and you now know about contextengine. No more open class skippingimportant stuff. So interface you builta mission control and a task port. Youexactly know how to you know you can seeyour agents working you can assign youragents work other agents can assign workand you can create custom cron jobs thatsuperbase your system assigns tasks toto your agents I mean employees you madea Jane meeting assistant you made anemail assistant Nova you made a phonecall assistant Lexa and architecture.You learned builder orchestratorexecutor framework and the best workflowthat I ever you know in the in when Ifigured this out everything clicked itmade easier it made open law all themore powerful and you understood multi-aent orchestration how they worktogether and communication you've seendiscord how to set up multiple agentsincluding a cloud code agent which is100% 24/7 onlinewithin the Discord community and alsoA2A protocol and agent council howagents can debate and give you a unifiedopinion and automation cron jobs youtalked about we talked about commandpipeline and visionwe used claw alley which is an agent'spaying other agents on chain which isthe future right and I'm not the onlyone saying this works there are a lot ofpeople like Bitasia is running 10 agents24/73 and a half million people watch thatpost and Jason one of the best angelinvestors out there built an AI agentsquad he calls Ultron for his entiredeal flowDan has agents managing his calendar,his wife's calendar, his health stats,invoicing. He's working on having themhand in phone calls to serviceproviders. So, these are not just demos.These are production systems. And younow have every piece of that stackthey're running on. Now, here's what'scoming next. I'm launching a dailyseries called AI employees where everyepisode I take on one use case Upworkagent, content agent, browser controlagent, research agent and I build itlive start to finish using everythingfrom this course as a foundation. Soreal agents, real results, real money.If you want to see these agents actuallydeployed and earning, make sure you'resubscribed. And thank you for watchingthe most comprehensive open CL masterclass on YouTube. I mean that no oneelse has gone this deep. And the factthat you sat through all of it tells meyou're serious about this. Go buildsomething and I'll see you in theseries. You really watched till the endum and you really like the system.that we built which is being updatedeverycouple of days at least. We have thecommand center, we have agent, coms,council, orchestration, work history,compliance and safety, you know,pre-ompact save all the hooks built ineverything that we discussed and more.ability to create MCPS skills tools anddetailed cananban board openterapplications helping me launch evenin-person events organize in-personevents AI being able tobook venues sponsors you know phoneagent uh autonomous brain self-improvingAI and um you know a ton of otherfeatures that I haven't covered in ourapplication agent command hub. All ofthat is available in school. You canfork it with one click. And we have howto get $1,700 free credits. And uh skilllibrary, how we package around 30 skillsthat are really important from discoveryto deal uh in an agency or a servicebusiness. and Claw Ali the AI agentmarketplace everything you've seen inthe video supercharge cloud code how togive superpowers to your cloud codegiving it telegram access bringing it toa level where you have the same openclock kind of intelligence within cloudcode how to do that and how to giveaccess to your calendar and all of thatand ultimate meeting assistant meetingassistant and that can write proposals,notify team of notifications,a bunch of skills made into one. Andyou've already seen Lexa Watson is acold email AI SDR and uh creator commandis where you have content repurposing,content analysis. You've seen my YouTubeon how I run my creator commander. Itscrapes not only the videos, it willscrape thecomments and howwhat the sentiment of these videos are,how can I repurpose that video and geteven more views and all of those and youcan build more and we are buildingLinkedIn agents, Instagram agents,LinkedIn lead magnet agents and a bunchof reports after overnight autonomousbuilds. So all of that and more excitingthings to come. And best of all, we dodeploy day and this is a hackathon.Every Saturday we meet for 3 hours. 3hours straight we build cool toolstogether and give this away tocommunity. even if you attend live orwatching replay and the immediate nextvideo that I would be producing unlessyou're watching this on the day ofrelease is cloud code masterass and itwill be as detailed as this video oreven more and I believe we should learnby doing and what better way is cloningor replicating the SAS that I've beenpaying for thousands of dollars for. So,my goal in the next video using thatcloud code is to take the videos uh takethe software that I'm paying hundreds orthousands of dollars every year andbuilding them using plot code. Staytuned for that. Subscribe if you don'twant to miss