have here?I think it's already going to do it.I'll wait for it to finish.Maybe it's a good idea to add this injust in case uh it would say yeah I'malready doing it or already did itbecause if it's not somethingLord is doing already doing we wouldhave to wait another15 20 minutes which would be a waste oftime. I think we finally managed to fixit. So verification results.No task remains in needs input. Passworker dispatches briefing to raisesession.Then no tasks do not count towards workin progress. And all of the tests arepassed. And this is the report for theentire audit. And the entire audit tookalmost 20 minutes, more than 20 minutes.So you need to be careful with thesethings but it's all for the best if yousee. So needs input still in needs inputit says execution started but it notactually done by the worker agent. Nowif you go to uh I can fix the alerts butI want to make this work. Let's see ifthis started or no it's not sent. I wastold by open claw that uh this is good.I think we can stop iterating and moveto using it and uh it is operatingand it shouldtrigger and work any time. Now we needto run one more commandand task worker is nowrestartedand if you want to make sure that we onthe same page or we did the task we canjust paste the command. So we'll see ifthere is any moment wrong really.So if we go to here still in needs inputum but automations and actually opcenter we go to no here still reads fivecampaigns we do have campaignwe are in this final push now. So what Idid was there was a lot of issues goingon and uh again it started creating jobsin to-do and I have these automationswhere I have if you go to obender andprospecting I added one moreum campaign here I used accountants foraccountants in Vancouver so it uh cameup with 10 leads So we come back and umright now the tasks are automaticallycreated on the task board and it movedto needs input. The reason we are usingneeds input I'm not sure if you'refollowing but if the task isn't to do ordo the worker agent is picking it up andsubmitting reports that we don't need.So right now this is creating a job hereandour open floor agent should Oh wow. I'vegot the real job ID this time of thefirst research step. So this isn't justa dead notification. Then I'll close thehandoff task cleanly. The research callis still in flight which likely means AIenrichment step is running. I'm notgoing to leave the task hanging justbecause the request is slow. Awesome.Finally, after you don't know how longthis took for me to fix after a reallylong time, I was um next proper dogshould be uh that's the one that Ireview the copy and decide on edit andpublish. Perfect. So, after a lot oftesting, things are moving in the rightdirection and I have waited. I'm notsure if you've seen the timestamps morethan 2 hours now. And when I set thesame thing toI pasted the output that I received fromopen flow on cloud code perfectexecution. Let me verify the task. It isclean. Everything checks out. Everythingis done. Status progress. Five out ofsix needs researched. Zero drafted yet.Research is nearly done. Once itfinishes then X reconcile pick willdraft them and Noah drafts ready taskwill land on the board for your reviewand once the review is done I think thatis you need to add a button that says goahead because you don't want your leadsyou can preapprove emails in my opinionif you say this language is fine this isnot and uh ask it to gofull pipeline verified 10perfect I'll just so you can absolutelysee once we once open floorthe active session and the main sessionis beingactually woken up and given this taskthis is amazingso it's progressing fastit's doing its thing batch is donelonger than it should. I'm advancingVancouver accountant job right now.Research first then drafts needout of idle hand of state into activepipeline book. Next step is drafting tofinish because they will still sendreadynot complete yet and sculpt just sittingthere which is so we can check theprogress on each campaign I believeoutbound. So four are researched out of10um neand we have uh one okay one research andfive approvedgood um this needs to change there'ssome discrepancies here but to keep thismoving forward I had to click onactivateum so is moving then um three lit jumptwo approved and three leads selectresearched job status mode fromresearching to drafting. Uh you needeither run send window action or autosend equal to true. So there is uhsomething called auto send equal to truewhich bypass the approval. So I'm goingto send it for future sessions. Um butthis time as long as we are able to sendmore.Yes, perfect. You can see 1 minute agouh someone actually opened. Three ofthem opened. Wow. Okay. This is thesomething Dr. Mix. Hi there. Noticedyou've been voted best in business 7years running especially handlingmedical billing for integrated medicalpractices innotoriouslybut okay. Info Salburyand Co. Nice. And what else we have?This is suppressed. I don't know why. Ummaybe it's the email number one mostadmired and 62%femalesaw that Perkins willmaintain a impressive rate to see thatcombination.I don't know if they can tell all ofthis is AI, but uh it's really not badfor demos at all. Perfect. Love that. Umso if we go to our Asian command centerand uh we go to our outbox,I might have to refresh because usuallyit is not super dynamic. even if it'sdynamic. Uh sometimes what I've observedis local host won't update right away.Outbox you see how they have this openedalso tags. This is amazing.There uh you there you have it. That isan email assistant. And this is onlylike two phases. In future phases youcan even build more, develop more. Andthat will conclude our three four emailor AI employees that we are talkingabout. We've been talked about at thisauto dispatch canban board is one mainsegment we discussed and then wediscussed the meeting assistant meetingAI employee chain and then we discussedAlexa or phone employee now know what isdone where you can both repurpose thisinto an AISDRor someone who reaches out to your warmaudience.This next feature I'm going to show youwill blow your mind.This is something that I'm callingovernight autonomous builds. Get this isthe command center that we are seeing.It has a lot of features. I will everyone of you I will show you how to buildthis agent to agent communications.The telephone game that we are playingfrom start to finishcan be solved by completely letting twoagents interact with each other and youcan see what's going on move 7. What wejust built is a communication layer. Nowlet me show you what happens when you goall in on this. So there is this guycalled Banuta and his post got three anda half million views and is running 10autonomous agents 24/7 not chatbots notdemos production agents handling hisbusiness operations around the clock andthere is one more person um I think heis one of the biggest angel investorsum Jason and he made a post how Altronopen is replacing20 humans at launch. So he is one of thebiggest angel investors in SiliconValley and he built a system he callsultron and full agent squad managing hisdeal flow research and communicationsand you already seen bonet suite rightand there is this other guy and I don'teven know how to call it but you canlistum everything founders are doing withthis overnightuh coding agents, voice control,debugging, devops, watchd dogss thatmonitor and logs and there is you knowcontent building and shipping financesome wild things also includingnegotiating$4,200off of a car purchase while he slept.That that is the funny part. You know,you have a communication layer thatmakes all of this possible. So thequestion is not really you know whetherit works the question is how many agentsyou're going to run and we have councilremember how I asked Rey is saying thisis it okay or Claude is saying this isare you okay with that instead of measking both of them I let them sit in acouncil and discuss all of this and wehave orchestrationand this is what I've been raving about.So if you look at the work history,whenever I ask my open flow agent arrayto dispatch work, it will do somethinglike this.Next, send this to Sherlock. Sherlock ismy cloud code agent. Build amotivational quote application or ato-do application with the theme MiamotoMasashi. And it should have a todoapplication task due date priority anduse local storage as well as pomodorotimer and umdid I say samsara it was supposed to besakura likecherry blossoms containers in the pageand display mushasi's quotes from bookof five rings. Uh it said five brings.Okay. Then it sent toSherlock with actual things. Samuraiimage containers, uh, Mashi quotes, bookof five rings, and thenwhat doesmy claw body or the agent do at thatpoint? So, if you look at the time here,the first time I added this is at 9:46,right? So look at the time here. 9:18was it? I don't know. I don't think thisis the actual task. This must be a dummytask. An actual task must have gone muchlater. Okay. Restart the Mousashi todoapp. So 9:45 I give this command andfrom 9:45 it starts giving the task andmy claude agent will pick up the task.And when it picks up see 9:46 p.m. weare in context phase and then 9:46planning analyze requirements.So it will if you read this it willclaim in the phase context and then 946it will start the plan auton startingautonomous build and then it phase isanalyzing requirements planning approachfor building this app and then phasetask. So this is task board. This iscontext. This is planning. Thentaskboard task created and assigned.Build this anime time tracking app andpomodoro app. And then build phase. Andevery 3 minutes it will tell me how muchpercent the task is done. I'm not sureif you can see this. 3 minutes elapsed12% estimated. 6 minute elapse 24 36 48and then after at 1000 p.m. agentcompleted using 70 turns and it took 14to 20 minutes and if you look at thephases it starts with context and thenplanning and then task and then build.After the build is done it will validateand report and there is also a healstep. If something is broken it willheal it. So this is eightphaseautonomous build and while this going ononce I test the task I can resend thetask and say hey I'm not satisfied withthis I want you to work on it again andthen it will claim and fix and work onit again and you can do this sitting ona beach sitting on you know somewhere Iknow I I don't I'm not saying you youshould do Right? But you let's say youwent on a nice dinner and you want toassign your agents work and your mainopenflow agent which you prompted willtake care of the whole thing. It willmanage it. These two are same machine.For example,the overnight autonomous builds is onlypossible because it is this will changefrom task to task. But this is theformat. Sherlock is expecting only takeinspiration from the format. So I'mgiving some feedback here. Now the applooks really great. I want anotherimprovement piece. Right now it hasto-do like schedule. And this is againmy open plot dispatchingand this clock code agent is picking itup and doing the improvements. And afterthree improvements, every time I giveit, it does an eightphase buildout. 8phase buildout. And even if I'm notthere yet, um, you know, this is thiswas done at 12:30 a.m. 12:40 a.m. And asyou can see, 14 minutes, 19 minutes, 14minutes. And this is the applicationthat it built, the tasks, the trackerfor the whole day, what's planned,what's actually happened, and Pomodorotimer. And I can5 minute timer, 15 minute timer and ithas quotes and it has analytics of allthe tasks that I completed that I did. Ican add calendar. So this is like areally usableapplication that was completely made bytwo agents coordinating with each other.Now imagine open claw is in the samemachine. Cloud code is on the samemission. It will give the location andwe will have a third agent that willtest whatever the app was created. Thinkof it like the software SDLC you knowsoftware development life cycle havingan approver agent having a tester agenthaving a you know reviewerall of this is possible using thiseightphase autonomous builds and we haveseen a user assigning tasks to open clawwe have seen claw code agents assigntasks to open claw agents we seen andchron jobs like superbase assigning taskto open claw but what we haven't seenone of the biggest unblock there iscreatingor making cloud code work from open lawthat is the biggest unlock becauseeveryone is raving about how they areunable to use their cloud max plan withopen claw but you can really make a lotof interesting things happen with yourcloud code cloud max plan that's whatI've been doing building these all theseapplications that open cloud can be themind and soul of the system of the shellit builds one and alsouse open law as orchestrator and cloudcode as executed or vice versa we can doa lot of things here so without furtherado that is the example and also onemore thing that you might have missed isif you look at what Sherlock is doing atthe same time it is as soon as it'saccepted the task you know it I dispatchcleaned build progress 24% and buildprogress 48% and then dispatch completedand max turns 48 and cost is zerobecause we are using agent SDK Yay. Andthen this happens and it's asked me forsome approvals or whatn not. But you seewhere we are going with this. This iscompletelyby agents andthey can self-improve each other. Andyou can see this is reallydetailedand complex build. How would you buildit?I actually made a public repository forthat. Soit took me literally 15 hours to justfix this module to come to this stage. Ican give you a prompt but I don't thinkit would work. If I don't give you aprompt, we will have to sit here and Ihave to repeat the 15 hours again justto make it like it's the first thingbecause if you read the lessons learnedthat I have created for my actual flawapplication, your cloud will praise thisapplication till end of time because ithas more than just our edge functions AItasks edge function has more than250,000 lines just one file and you canimagine the gravity of what we builthere 44 features andmore than 200 AI actions that you cantake and features that I haven't eventouched in this master class. The AIhaving ability to ask questions andasking for approvalsor reverse engineering your goals andsetting reverse engineering yourmilestone based uh reverse engineeringyour actual goals intoaction based goals. what based on provenplaybooks of what you need to be doingand skill factory ability to add skills,break down skills and look at YouTubevideos or API docs and creating the setof skills or apps that you can buildhunter.io IO enrichment, bulk leadenrichment and using this I actuallybuilt an op center application calledlead enrichment just using that videoand we enriched 3,800 leads out of whichwe found emails for 700 people for freecompletely free and that was made by onevideo. So as you can see this is reallydetailed what we are doing what we areseeing what we are building is only tipof the iceberg on how to really use openclaw to best of our abilities.So what I would do here I would come andI would clone since this is a publicrepository I would sayclone this repo and look at uh what wehave and we are implementing thiscommand center for ourAsian command hub and wherever you findclawbody references it's actuallya different application. We need torewrite or make it for our ownapplication.So this is what we are using. This iswhat we need to be building. The exactsame agent command center that took me15 hours to figure out. That's what weare building. And that's what we havemulti- aent dispatch protocol. We havean openflow agent and a cloud codeagent. An open flaw will assign a task.Once the task is assigned, we will theagent will take atake the context make a plan accordinglyand create a task for itself. It willbuild, it will validate, it will he willreport and then finally close. So why itworks this way? Handler drives thephases. Eightphase transition not thedispatched agent dispatch plus sessioncan't be trusted to make API calls. Soanything that we need cloud code agentto do we will be building anotherhandler. That's why these are all thelessons that we have learned from the 15hours. Right? it was driving me crazy bythe time I'm finished with it. So I havethe prompt that addresses a bunch ofissues but still we will run intochallenges once we start working with itand let's see what it is doingrepository structure top leveldirectories. So it clonedthe repo and it is looking atwhat we can essentially use. And once itstarts with we will probably have to setup claude agent SDK I believe becausethat is what is going to drive the wholething because you cannot we were able tosummon orwake up the session that open CL is inthat that same thing is not possiblewith claude code as far as I know Imight be wrong. This is B repo fullautonomous build system for long codeagents and the same stack as us what wecan use front end high value seven timeand the hooks session start alignmentcheck pre-mpact save command guard docktest. So if you look at the hooks thatI've developed these are amazing hooks.Anytime session starts it loads context.It sets agent online detects pendingwork. Alignment check 12 health checksproduces alignment score and alsopre-compact save.sh.So anytime you're compacting theconversation with the cloud code, itwill save it before compacting. And thencommand guard it blocks destructivecommands like if you're removing orforce pushing or you if you're doingdatabase reset it will stop all of thatand it is doing two/ commands. One isautopilot and one is done. So found andread me throughout the skills. Okay thisis a big integration. Want me to plan itout? Yes I plan on using everything. Sothe idea is array will assign tasks toyou and you will be doing them.Let's start with that for front endfirst and then v the back end.Ilike the front end. So you can use theexact same styling and everythingbut for our agent names