don't useyour actual email address, actual domainthat might be damaged using this.Or a betteralternative for this is using instantly.What do we do using instantly?We use Instantly to create all of thiscustomized or these personalizedcampaigns and send it to instantly. Wehave built AISRs on any den before youcan just replace whatever I'm teachingfor resend and ask I need to send I needyou to send this to instant whicheverbuilder agent you are using it should beable to figure it out. So the text stackas always for previously I showed youMelis for the phone agent but you canjust as easily use it with VP pipe catlive kit if you are familiar and how touse those platforms you don't have toknow it your builder will be able tofigure it out and the same thing withmeetings too works with fireflies authorread anymeeting assistant that has APIs and webhooks. And similarly,we have resend, whicheverplatform you choose, whether you chooseagent mail, whether you chooseinstantly, it all works. And I likerecent because their pricing is reallypredictable. And no, if you are doingwarm campaigns, people that havedownloaded things from you, this is thebest you can do for them. uh you get50,000 emails per month and uh extraemails like 90 cents per thousand. Thiswas enough for us and uh 100,000 willcost you $90. And then you also needthese are transactional emails. But ifwe want more contacts because thisnumber of contacts that you can havehere is extremely limited. If you wantto upload contacts, you will need toupgrade to pro marketing plan. And themost you can do is 5,000. So you theseleads have to be really amazing if youare only targeting 5,000 contacts or youneed a rigorous AI. So 7 days you target500 to a,000 people. After 7 days thecampaign is done, you know they are notopening. you need to send them to adifferent table away from recent. If youare okay with that, you should be ableto make this work. So that's why I saidthis is more of adeveloper friendly platform. But if youare more into using instantly, you can.And for this example, the free plan ismore than enough. What do you get forfree plan? You get 3,000 emails permonth up to 100 emails a day.that is more than enough for what we aretrying to do. If you only are reachingout to people that have submitted thathave uh subscribed to your email uhdownloaded lead magnet from you so thatway you know you keep it clean right soyou you don't do custom email blast ifyou are planning to do that just upgraderight so nothing is truly free and howto set this up I will go step by steponceYou see all the available options here.We have analytics, we have campaigns,you can create campaigns, personalizedcampaigns and track, how many of themopened, how many of them delivered. Youcan export all the reports and you cansee on a high level what they're doingand you can even open each of theseemail. It's just a prompt, right? Promptaway. What are the traps? waterscheduled, water running, water passed,water completed. And then we havesequences. You can create emailsequences. Step one, do this, step two,do this, step three. This ispersonalization at scale. You can sayyou can either use one of the templatesor you can doAI prompts as well. You can do, hey, Iwant this campaign to do this and this.use pain agitate solution framework andit will do that. It will follow thatframework and create what do you want topromote. The CTA is book a call or CTAis making people join my agent in a box.And the better model you use for thisbetter the results will be. Somy open flaw is being run on a 5.4 forCEX which is good model in my opinionwith all the reasoning and all the ifyou give it the right prompt say theright things it will generate amazingcontent. So the idea is you create thisemail AI employee that will look atcampaigns,take your natural language instructionand generate lead list and send theseemails and analyze campaigns. And oncethe campaigns are analyzed, it willcreate a new it learns. It is likeautonomous brain that is learning and itcomes up with these are the lessonslearned from this campaign. This kind ofemails are getting more opens. This kindof emails are getting more clicks andbased on that it will create the nextcampy even more powerful because youdon't have thousand lawyers in US youhave 4,000 lawyers and what you learnedfor the first 5,000AI will apply open will apply all ofthat to the next 5,000you see how amazing this is how peoplethink this it's nothing but Having an AIemployee that can do all of this withoutyou lifting a finger. Once you set itup, it takes care of the whole thing.This AI SDR, how powerful is that? Andyou only get involved when someone joinsyour community or someone books a callwith you. How amazing is that? I amreally excited.So without further ado, let's jump inand uh start setting up our email agentthat open clock and just use all theframework, all the infrastructure andrun these campaigns by itself. When yougo to this Nova email agent, you willsee these are the prerequisites. Uh youneed email sending service. Supportedoptions are resend, which is recommendedfor warm email. If you are buildingAISDR which we are right now recent isgood and I told you if you haven'twatched previous section a little bitthe intro of this section you shouldagent mail instantly smartly uh alsoneeded a verified sending domain DNSrecords and um your when you wheneveryou see clawbody it is just Asiancommand hub six pages or one mail umcommand center dashboard outboxtemplates sequences campaigns analyticsI showed you everything right now I'malso planning to add a leads table andalso a lead gen module so I want toshow you with the current setup fromtemplate to track engagement we havetemplate sequence campaign outboxanalytics and we have these statusescued, sending, delivered, opened,clicked, replied, bounced, failed. WhatNova can do, it can create variableplaceholders, auto extracted, HTML,plain text versions, category tags. Idon't want to explain everything indetail right now, but imagine it is apowerful AI agent that can do a lot foryou and more than you can imagine. Thinkof it like you are hiring someone, anexperienced copywriter to manage all ofyour email campaigns that he will reviewand improve every single thing based onthe campaign, based on what he learned.And if he learns something,this is where it gets really powerful.One of the reasons you might bewondering this many hours into thetutorial, but I haven't really talkedabout cron jobs which most people seemto love because I'm building myfoundation. What are other people aredoing for cron jobs? There there is thisguy asking for crypto prices and thereis this guy who's asking for weather.Okay, it is what it is. What I'm gettingat is imagine a crown job, a dailydigest that has everything about yourbusiness. What meetings you hadyesterday? What do you need to finishtoday? Your daily battle plan and howdid your campaigns perform yesterday?Detailed analysis, what insights that Ilearned from yesterday.All of that needs to be included inthose chron jobs. Right now, people aredoing it at a really base level, justtesting out, seeing how it does. Uh somepeople are doing competitive intel,including me.Everyone has their own preferences. Butif you want the users like the top 1%,you need to build a solid foundation.And that is what we are doing with thisemail agent. We have engagementanalytics, campaign management whichI've already shown you earlier. I don'twant to go in too deep. And for Nova, weuh already have the prompt in Lightkit.But this is the setup for the emailsdelivered and everything. So I will copythis prompt and I will give this to youcan like I said if you want a bit ofhard way you can use open law agent tobuild this but depending on your model Iwould I don't think that's a great ideayou are better off using builder agentsthat part that's what we've been doingfor from the beginning of this tutorialor from midway or somewhere so I willjust on add one more thing.So couple of changes. We need to moveAlexa. Right now we have it on thesidebar menu. Remove that. It shouldlive in op center. We already have that.We are also building Nova or AISDRin op center as well. Agent command hub.Okay, that is the prompt. It is a bigprompt. It willas soon as I said op center, it willrealize okay, I need to build thissimilar to Lexa. And if you look at theupdate to-dos update, we have removing.Okay, let's see if we can read it. Uh,we have removing Lexa from sidebarnavigation. Run Nova database migration.Set up Nova in op center. Build Nova UIcomponents and uh deploy Nova edgefunction for email sending and web hooktest Nova end to end. So we need to giverecend API key and we need to give weneed to set up our recent as well. Sowhile this is doing because it will comeback soon I want to go and set up myrecent. So to set up your recent onceyou log in um you will see this emailsbroadcast you need to go to domainsbecause if you don't have a domain itwill let you use the test domain whichis not late you won't be able to sendtoo many from that just for testingpurposes. So I have mydomain uh my domain provider is namecheap. So I can go there and uh look atthis vertical systems.com.I copied thisum URL and uh click on manage DNSbecause I need to make some changesthere. Nowyou come back to recent and you see howit is asking for a subdomain. I will doupdatesdot vertical vertical aisic systems.com.So that is the URL that I want to useand also you can go advanced optionsthat's only sent we are adding thedomain. Once you click on add domain itwill give you few things to update. Iwill do that. So this is a text record.This is the host. This is the value andTTL is auto. You come here. You go toadvanced DNS. It is different for everyuh domain provider out there. You canjust search for if you don't know.Usually it's in DNS. And if you areTechnico, I don't have to tell you wherethat is. So I'm copying this. Comingback.Auto is fine. add the record. And whatelse do we have? We have an MX recordthat is send.updates.So already I set up send.al alerts. So Iam adding a new record here.Send.updates.And it is also asking me what is thevalue and priority 10. That's what youneed to remember. Priority 10.Andokay text record send.updatescome over here and I cometext record send dot updatesand we have this value and no prioritybackdone.So just like that I updated my domain. Icome back hereand um as soon as I give it it knowsthat it's name sheep. Okay enablereceiving. So updatesI need to add record as well.So this is forif someone wants to send you an emailresponse back, you need to be able toreceive it, right? That's what we aredoing with this. So when you enablereceiving, you're essentially lettingother people to send a reply to thatemail. So I will click on updates and umthe next one is copy the value and ohokay sorry this value and priority 10dates priority 10save.Yeah we are done.I don't think it will let me proceed ifI don't click that. Okay. Looking forDNS records. Sometimes it takes up to anhour. So I came back to check up on ourbuilder and it's doing a really goodjob. Well, this is done.Partially verified. What does that evenmean? Let's refresh. Uh, it sayspartially verified. So, I'm good withthat. Let's go to API key. Let's createAPI key. Agent command hub. agentcommand hub. So I also updated itinv.google.I will share that toI've updated the resend API key in agentcommand hubenv.lofolder.And once the email agent is done, it'sactually sending me a customizedcampaign um customized sequence. Let'ssee. I will give it simple instructionthat it needs to send me or subscribe tome, subscribe me to a campaign. And oncethat is done in phase one, in phase two,we are going to build the AISDRcapabilities.that we will use our natural language todescribe what the lead that we arelooking for and um it will be convertedinto a query that we will go to um thisuh we might need to add an API key tomake the process feeleasy and quick uh and I will add myKimik 2.5 API key or any model. If youhave an open router API key, that's evenbetter. So once you have that, it willuse one of the models to whatever youare saying, it will take that and changeit and transform it to a request that wewill use ampify to scrape these leads.Appify I don't even have to usepre premium plan. And we can usesomething like a free plan gets you $5and you can get a lot of leads theretoo. We'll build that once this is done.I'm signing up to apply. It's um you canclick on get startedand continue with Google. Free accountis fine. you will haveor we already are using a YouTubescraper but we do have $5 that we canuse. So I'll go to my API and uh we goto manage tokens.I will copy this API key and paste in myuh env.local.So these are the two things that Iadded. Appify API key. You can use openAPI key or any anthropic open router orKimmy. I have a lot of credits justsitting there. But I was using when Iwas planning to use this foropen claw. I have a ton of credits onKimmy because I wanted to use this for adedicatedopen claw agent because I'm planning toget max studio. So I want to understandhow well Kimik 2.5 can handle all thetasks before I get the local model andI've been using this quite a bit. So Iwant to see more on how to do that. Andalso these are the two keys that weadded. I might I might have to blur thisbut recent amplify Kimmy is what we did.And I will go back to my open floormy builder agent and sayso this is getopen link is basically giving me thesecretanyone can see on my screen. I need tostart. Alternatively, if the book secretisn't set, it is set and uh my sendingdomain is updates.You can use the username Nova and uhsender as money or Nova at verticalsystems or I don't mind.I believe man kanasani and uh sendingin my name is actually much better. Solet's do that. Sender name should be mankanasani and um email could be moneyupdates.aiicis.com.So you heard that too and I'm prettysure it's not ready for the next phase.Once we test this is working. This isthis should work with um cloud codeagent. If cloud code agent can send itopen can do it even better. That's one.And then once it works, I will ask it tocreate the AISDRthe campaign creation using the API keythat we created. It will scrape theleads and uh initiate the campaign andopen claw. I want open claw to be thedriver for this. And umwe should probably work on skills and Iwill sh the I'm trying to follow a flowand focus on things that other peopleare not teaching too much. We'll get tothat part soon. You can send me a testemail to mni atgrowthcreators.aiif it's working and I want you to runthis scenario. I want you to create acampaign and call it test campaign andI'm the only receiver and theinformation that you have about me is myname ma ny let's say that fordistinction and alsoyou need to customize an email we aredoing pain agitate solution sequence andwe are sending people something calledagent in a box community and I will addthe landing page in here which isjoin.verticalsystems.iois the link for the landing page andjoining. So I want you to create threeemail sequence using pain agitatesolution and create a test campaignand set the campaign as you know firstday you receive one email second day youreceive second third and so on. So thatis the test campaign that I want you torun once this is set up. So remainingstep on your end recent API key setsuperbase dashboard project setting edgefunction secrets agent command web hooksecretand recent uhweb hook URL. Okay, I will go to secretthreads and I will add thissaveand um we let me close this and I go toweb hookURL for recent. I think it should beable to add that for us if I ask it toall events.Okay, all events is fine. Perfect.Two things done. Test email sentsuccessfully. I'm not sure if I did thatuh for before I actuallywent and changed it. So if we refresh,it automatically refreshed. So if we goto op center, I see nosent one. If I go to campaigns, I don'tsee any campaigns, no sequences,templates, agent in a box, computer,community pane, still doing everythingmanually, sequence.So, let me see if I actually receivedit. Okay, why is live test email?So, only test email is sent. Now, it'sactually creating a campaign. Once thatis done, we will make this like a trulyAISDR.So if you look at the dashboard saysopen rate is 0%. Because the first one Idon't think the event was sending rightaway. Uh but I also got the secondemail.It says, "Are you still doing everythingmanually?" And quick question, how manyhours a week are you spending on taskthat should be automated? And uh thenokay, this is not bad. Not bad at all.And if we go back to this and if Irefresh the page and go to center here,I don't know why when we refresh it, ittakes the whole thing. Okay, cueddelivered sent.Okay, it should do a few things. Testcampaign is live. I can see uh one ofsend and sequence is pain. Still doingeverything manually. Agitate the realcost of doing nothing. PSA solution.Perfect. It is working and analytics isgreat too. I just want to check onething.Are we receiving anyevents from the web hook? I don't Iopened both of the messages but openrate is not being reflectedand also add visually pleasingfuturistic data visualizers on the frontendthat was me beinga pain to builder because that is notreally important. Uh if you look at thedashboard it did reasonable job. uh Ican see what's sent what's delivered butmy actual application I made it reallyclean really futuristic so all the daysall the graphs and all the bounce rateand you know how we have this ouranimations it takes time it took us alot of time to