d if you skip the first partthinking I'll just installgoat you need both. Okay. The way Ithink about it the six steps are yourfoundation. Nemo is the enterpriselayer. If you're running this foryourself the six steps are probablyenough. If you're deploying this for aclient and running it in production orbuilding something that touchessensitive data, Nemo Pro is what you aregoing to add. And uhI had this simple table that showspersonal use six steps takes 15 minutes.Production outline deployment six plusname. Manual hyping is enough forpersonal use. You need automated soundproduction. Firewall rules are enough.policy enforced access control making itso hard just at the infrastructure memoto break and then you monitor the lawsopen shell audits everything in aproduction um and both of them are freeanyway and the fact that Nvidia thebiggest GPU company on earth looked atopen plan and said the first thing theyshould add is security that tells youeverything about why this chapter existsall that uh your agent is threatenedwhether you did it by hand with openblock. You're now in the top 1% ofpeople running open security and thatmatters because everything we built fromhere on out. It's going to have realaccess to your data, your email, yourforks, your business. And you don't wantthat running on an open port with nofirewall. Now let's introduce you toyourwe are getting into some of the mostexciting things still a bit explanationshowing you what's possible not intothat business process yet butfoundations are important to learn firstbusiness brain upload this is level oneBecause understand this essentially youare introducing yourself to your AI. Ifyou don't do this step right, AI won'tknow who you are. It doesn't have anycontext of how it needs to help you,what your processes are. Anytime youhave something you need to re ask orexplain, give contextevery single time. For example, imaginethis. If you ask it a lead generationquestion, it will ask you what yourproduct is, what your current uh youknow conversion rate is, what are thechannels that you are currently gettingclients from. Yes, it is okay for AI toask these questions. But imagineinstead of okay, money asked me thislead gen question, I will just searchfor whatever is available and just Iwill give it to him. If it's being lazy,which most AIs take your command as acommand, try and give you as much aspossible by assuming things. You need togive a business brain. You need toupload your business brain. Doeseveryone need this? It we have differentlevels. So level one is core identity,mission, values and voice. So foundationevery agents needs before it canrepresent you. So this is the level onecontext prompt. This is where myexperience of running agency for all ofthose years you know 3 years of runningagency we have seen this happen in anyproject that we use in chatbot projectwe have seen issues after issues butonce we provide AI with additionalcontext it performs wonderfully. So, asyou can see, this is a context prompttemplate and level one. Who should usethis? This guide is intended forbeginners who want to avoid startingeach conversation from the beginning.And what does it have? It has about mesection, work style, current focus, andhow I want to how I want AI to help me.So, what I would do is I would just copythis Right? Whichever chatbot you areusingtoday we have. So what would I do? Iwill just copy this level one template.I also gave you example of how thiswould look. I can copy this the wholething. And whichever chatbot you areusing now has a memory feature that ithas memory accumulated over the years. Iwill just paste it. prepare this for me.Rewrite everything for my use case.I will just say rewrite everything.Create level one context prompt uh forme money.So you you don't have to use opus that'snot needed and it will just reviewmemory gathering my thoughts be rightthere and uh we'll probably see thingabout personalized. Okay. founder andCEO of Vertical Systems and uh workstyle is this current focus is this andthe only reason I was able to come upwith this is because my agent has abunch of context about me and if itdoesn't have the contextyou need to mention no if you don't havethe context let me know so you needabout me work style parent focus how AIhow I want AI to help me this willbecome the core some people aresuggesting just think that you two arebrain dumb. I did that but it's notstructured. What about small businessowners? We have something even betterfor small business owners. Deep, youknow, level two context. So level two isdesigned for professionals who want AIto understand their business context andprovide more strategic assistance. Whatdoes it have? It has name, role,company, industry, experience,strengths, weaknesses, communicationstyle, mission, products, target market,company size, business model, directreports, key collaborations, reportingstructure, team dynamics. As you cansee, it's really detailed and reallylong, too. And it's for a good reason.Now, anytime you ask Open a question, ithas all the context that it needs toanswer that question. So it knowswhat you know what is the meetingcadence, what is the communication toolsthat you are using. So it can suggestintegrations, improvements orreplacements if you will. So if it knowsyour strengths when you ask for a newbusiness venture, it knows what to focuson. And every thing that you'rementioning here will serve you like umuh it's your ammo, right? for what youwhatever you're doing and this isproduct services pricing customerportfolios everything that we talkedabout is deep context and level three iswe are talking about large enterpriselevel operational blue playbooks it hasSOPs workflows decision trees escalationpaths the tactical layer that letsagents execute autonomously so if youopen level three it has this is themaster bron that can transform how yourorganization works with AI 100%. Andthis is at least 10 to 15 hoursinitially. And uh everything hasguidelines and instructions to use. Andif you just if I just scroll throughexecutive summary and mission visionpersonal profile and it has how I wantAI to assist me and your team membersteam member 1 2 3 and also it hasbusiness architecture, product andservices, revenue stream, competitivelandscape, operational intelligence,marketing operations, customer success,strategic frameworks and every meetingyou ever had. All the team have any teammembers. We are not restricting anythingin this. We can add any and everythingabout the company. Current initiatives,key projects, contextual intelligence.I'm not even reading the subheadings ineach. If I read that within thecontextual intelligence and eateverything what's included, we mightspend another half an hour or so just incontext prompts. So this is why I wantyou to take this course seriously. Youdon't have to watch everything at thesame time. Each thing, each chapter thatyou are going to implement is going tolevel up you the way you use AI andthis is a must that everyone issuggesting you oh do a brain dump andit's enough no it's not enough how muchyou can remember do you think a braindump can do all of thisI don't think so what did we do wepractice what we preach So as you cansee from here it's around 15 pages longand it has everything how I operate howwhat systems I built and what my futuregoals are and it has my team structureit has my professional backgroundeducational background and my journey sofar and my case studies everything thatyou can think of all the products thatI'm launching that have launched it hasthe whole thing and I followed thisframework to build that. So myrecommendation to you isdo this to your best of your abilities.At least start with level one. Evenlevel one will improve a lot because youare explaining what AI needs, whatyou want from AI because that isimportant, right? You have to have agoal. If you are just reading this likea chatbot, it will be a chatbot. Andwhat else do we have? Your agent'sbrain. So these are some of the filesthat matter. You might be hearing aboutsoul.md. What is soul? It is who theagent is personally you know values tonecommunication style uh read first onevery wake up and the single mostimpactful file is the soap and thenwhat's the identity? Identity is theexternal presentation. The name, emoji,avatar, you know, how it introducesitself, the agent's face, if you will,is called the identity. and user.md thisis where the context forms that I wastalking about will go and who the useris the name the preferencescommunication style it is know yourhuman file and agents.md these are subaents operating instructions workflowrules behavior patterns the backbone ofagent behavior equivalent to a systemprompt so any sub agent that we createlike earlier We created an anthropicagent. It goes here, right? Tools.mdsay environment nodes, local tools, youknow, path conventions and aliases,risky commands, guidance, not accesscontrol. So the everything lives intools.mmdand memory systemfrom what I've heard. Open claw is thisamazing thing that will never forgetanything.That's not true. I was um looking atsomeoneopen claw incident deleting emails. So Iwas Meta security researchers AI agentsuddenly deleted um her emails. So metasummer says she ran open claw on herinbox but it's size triggered compactionand lost my original instruction to gether permission before deleting. So whathappened was couple of weeks ago is thisperson summer sheinstructed her open law agentan instruction that said oh you shouldnot delete anything without mypermission and her command was later sheasked oh I want you to flag all theemails that I should be deleting andthat is itand what happened was the conversationcompacts. It is not with all themillions of words, millions of contextwindow that we have right now. Even thenAI doesn't really remember truly everysingle word and it's not needed. It'snot, you know, if it created code, let'ssay 100,000 lines of code, it doesn'thave to remember package.json, right?It's it doesn't really make any sense.AI doesn't have to remember that andeven the chat window conversation thatyou are having will be compacted. So thememory system you see here it has memoryMD which is long-term persistent memorycompressed history durable decisionscross session knowledge the agent'spermanent notebook is memory MD and thememory forward slash the date MD isdaily append only logs loads today andyesterday's session at the startimportant stuff gets curated into memoryMD over time. So you have this runningmemory that is happening every singleday and you have the long-termpersistent memory and if it thinks it'simportant in here, it will move it tothe main memory. Okay. So even if youconsider this memory, you have to bereally carefulin believing that it will remember thewhole thing. Unless you specificallysave this to your memory, it won't andit will easily compact it because itthinks okay this instruction is notimportant. That's what happened insummer's case. The AI completelycompacted that instruction deleted abunch of messages and summer was like ohopen clause stop and it did not stop. Itdeleted the whole thing. So keep that inmind. AI doesn't remember everything andconversations will be compacted.So this happened with me when I wasusing a new open claw agent as well. Sowhat's been happening when I ask it todo something it says it's going to doit. For example, a task comes up oncanband board and it will say yeah Ipicked it up. I started doing it. And italso creates all the subtask that needsto be done. And it says it's planningand that's it. It doesn't do anythingelse.So in order to fix this, I came up withan eightphase build out the whole plan.But that is for development focusedtasks. But this is more of a work at abase level to really go out and buildour application on either codeex orcloud code and completelybe open be this brain within this systempower take actions you know read ourmeetings or come up with meetingintelligence or it's outreach whateverthe case may be whatever we decide totwo uh we have to first make this actionwork. Soinstructionit has to read and it has to takeinstructions from a board. Why is thatimportant? When it happens it can takethe same instruction not necessarilyfrom us. Next time an agent can assignthe work. I'm sure you're getting this.So, it is really important for me to fixthis before I move to the build part.So, I was looking at what are some ofthe things that I did with the otheragent I was working for the first timeto get to this point. Initially, when Iuploaded my business brain, it was allabout the user. But I didn't do a lotwith the soul or identity. They evolvedas we worked together. But now I'mtrying to achieve the same results thatI was getting with the other agent withthis agent. So we have to fix the souland identity.So I took all the challenges that I'vebeen facing, all the conversation that Ihad trying to solve this issue, gave itto Claude and asked it to create an openflaw agent configuration. And the issuewas the soul and identity files had alot of generic advice and vagueinstruction. For example, soul wassaying be helpful, be resourceful,philosophical guidance that tells modelof nothing about how to execute. Withoutexplicit operation rules, the agentdefaults to acknowledging task insteadof doing them. So this is reallyimportant that we need to fix it.Context window bloat. After 2 to threehours, your session has accumulatedhundreds of thousands of tokens. Openclock compacts old context to fitsilently dropping your execution rules.The agent literally forgets it'ssupposed to be building something. So wehave to build this soul and identityfiles and the key insight is the fixisn't better prompting it's betterarchitecture separate concerns enforcerules and ship artifacts. So what doesthe file architecture I know wediscussed this earlier what each filehas but so who the agent is how itexecutes what it never does and you needto keep this in a bit under 100 linesbecause it is loaded every turn and whatabout identity keep under 15 lines it ispure definition it has agent name emojiexpertise areas operating model,concrete skills, languages, etc. If itif your model is completely new, you canadd memory. If you have been using itfor a while, don't worry about memory.So, what is bad? What is good? I gavesome examples here. You can give this toan AI agent and ask it to I would tryandnot use OpenCloud itself to make thischange. If you are using cloud or openAI chat GPT go to that and ask these aremy goals. It already has a memory so italready has a context of who you are. Somake use of that data and ask it tocreate this file for you. Brainstormtogether if it doesn't make sensebecause it's only 100 lines, right? 100lines for one, maybe 15 lines for theother. SoI will show you as an example what mysoul file is and most people includingmyself didn't know how this would looklike how to access soul file for thefirst time. So what you would do is ifyou openyour terminal,you just need toask it to open dot open floor or open ifyou know whatever the file location isin the open flaw. As soon as you clickthat, it will openthe workspace. Open CL first and thenyou will need to find workspaceand in workspacesor just workspace you will find identityall the files that you know if you havebootstrap or agents all the files that Idiscussed and also I think it isconfusing this claw buddy integrationguide with this as well. So I willprobably change the name of theapplication to agent command orsomething. And uh let's first work onone thing at a time. If you open soul,you can see who you are. You are not achatbot. You are becoming someone. Thevibe. So I will leave this and pastethis. I don't want to play with memorybecause memory I've been using it for acouple of weeks now. So it should be ina good stage.So that is the only fix I'm doingupdating the soul and identity. And Iwill attach this guide to show you whatthe difference between a bad soul andidentity files and a good ones. So ifyou run into issues, you can go aheadand change it because I am using GPT 5.4one of the really one of the best modelsthere is honestly and if my agent all ofa sudden behaves weird and that's for agood reason. That's how I fixed it andthat's how I'm going to progress now.and then life cycle and extensions.Bootstrap.mdfirst run startup uh setup interviewgenerates initial workspace files fromconversation autodeleted aftercompletion. And then we haveheartbeat.mduh recurring checklist that runs every30 minutes. Keep it short to minimizetoken burn only needed for backgroundtasks. So it will check wake up doesmoney have any or your user have anytasks for me it wakes up and startsworking if it's no task it will go backto sleep but that act of activelychecking is using AI so you have tominimize either use model that is reallycheap uh really inexpensive if not youwill have to come up with somethingyou have to come up with a cheaperalternative like an old armor model orsomething that's really ship root.mdstartup hook on every gateway restartdifferent from bootstrap runs every timenot just the first run and then we haveskills forward/ you know star skill.mdfile and some modular capabilitydefinitions with yl formatterinstallable from fla loaded at runtimewhen relevant. So there are thousands ofskills and um this is where they go.Okay. And these are one of the examplesthat come to mind is constantself-improvement skill or um you knowability to clone skills or learn fromthis skill that skill. So there are abunch of skills that you can give youropen claw agent and sub agent blindspot. And people their first questionwhen they see this open claw agent andthe kind of demo that I showed you whynot just create sub agents you have APIkeys you can create one for researchercoder and all of that your agent can bemanaged but some of the cons in doingthat is sub agents only receiveagents.md and tools.mmd they don't havesoul they don't have identity They don'thave user. They don't have memory. Sothey are functional workers, notpersonality clones. And this is whatmost people miss. If you need a subagent to need know something, encode itin the task prompt or agents.md.So most people are treating the agentsor sub agents the same way uh they treatagents becausethey would think, oh, they know me, theyknow the user. But you see how trickythis is. We wrongfully think both aresame agents are agents like a clonething. No, they only have access toagents and tools.mmd. So keep that inmind. And also you need to turn onagentto agent communication if you wantrealtime updates. What do I mean bythat? So if you give a task to let's sayyour main