second one andwe haveproject reference and it isshortID and then this goes in do not uhexport as superbase access token ourenvironment not here database passwordif you want me to remote SQL migrationsfor CLI. Okay. Now we need these threethings. If we go back to superbase, itasked me if you want to create newproject and I want to name it.If you want to fork my cloudy project,you can join my school community and weare even doing 3hour hackathons everysingle weekend. So it's going to beamazing. Every single weekend we aregoing to build projects and give awaythat system whoever joins the call oryou can access the replay as well. Soclawbody is done. We have the projectURL. Copy it and you go back to openclaw. This is the project URL and weneed the anon key and uh we have we needproject reference. Usually projectrecurrence is this. they won't reallyeven hask it. Uh I don't know why OpenClaw is particular about that. So if wego to our project settingsand uh keys and we have current key,previous key, legacy JWT. If you go toAPI keys, uh we havewe need a publishablelegacy and on n on public. We need thiscopy. Go back hereandgoes here. Project ID. I don't want toadd something that'swithout verifying. But you can see seeNF and start with uh ends with XDC rightit's the same thing usuallyum they don't need it okay then we alsoneed to give superbase access token togive your superbase access token youneed to follow this format right if youremember we were following superbaseaccess token Um and um we are settingthe token, we are loading it, we aregateway reinstall restart and then we doa python print without revealing thekey. We are asking it to do you have it?We are checking the length for it. Sothat is the flow we've been following tosecurely share our superbase access orany API key for that matter. And wherecan you find your superbase accesstoken? I believe it's in the accountlevel access tokens. Yeah, generate newtoken.Sunny expiresin um never. I'll probably blur thisbecause I will probably use this.Okay, I cancopy the token hereand umprobably save it somewhere safeor I will probably revoke it anyway. So,I'll come here. So base access tokenpasteand I will copy the whole thing and thensee and uh I go to terminal. Usuallyit's a good practice toopen new terminal. I will go back hereand I willbecause the session will be restartedaccess token set length is 44.So it's finally done. I implementedsuperl foundation task board integrationand commit and um it added a superlclient current blocker on machine yetbecause superb commandit's not visibleI just verified superbase access accesstoken in my environment it access lookharder and alsotry install superbase um because youhave access to this CLI.So the whole thing started because theopen floor said it doesn't have accessto CLA andthroughout this master class maybe Ikeep saying itfor you know the praise all the praisethat open law has been getting sometimesit does behave dumb and the newer youragentthe dumper it behaves. So as time goesby it will know it is updating itsmemory. It's updating its soul identityand everything. It updates what it knowsabout you and everything and once youget into the groove uh you know once youknow the preferences and everythingthings change. So I already set this upuh this agent around 6 or maybe 8 daysago max but before that I was usinganother Mac mini and I was using Opus4.6 it was much smarter much faster andit was responsible for building thewhole thing. As you can see, it'samazing. It can, you know, we can buildworkflows. We can have agentscommunicate with each other. We haveemployees,we have skills, and we haveorchestration wheretheseagents can assign tasks to each other.And you can actually see them working onuh these are some of the tasks that'syou know they deployed for each otherand build when I was sleeping. That isthe key. 12:40 a.m. 12:39 a.m. I was noteven here at my computer. I was justmessaging on Telegram from my bed and Iwas taking care of the whole thing. Sothe agent will improve and you will do alot better together. I dug deeper andgot it working. What I did installedsuperbase CLI in homebrew confirmed yourtoken is available in login shell linkedthis repo. Ran remote migrations. So itdid obviously did a lot of things.I want to see the application. Can youspin up a server on local host?So 5137.Okay, it's blind.None of them are loading. Uh did weinstall all dependencies?Was it supposed to work? So I am notexactly sure because it did not say Iwas installing dependencies npmum run dev all of that is not doneobviously when you don't run it it won'tshow perfect it loaded so it gave meissue you got it dependencies installedbut it failed becauseenvironment local was missing So itfixed it. Now we have it. So the nextthing that I want to add is work on isthe board. Okay. And we are making thisagent in a way thatagents can create it. How do agentscreate tasks? If you are only workingwith one agent and that is your openfloor agent, you don't have to worryabout too much. You don't have to createthe superbase. You know, you can justuse your local storage.But I am taking it you are a kind ofperson who wants to you know have amulti- aent working for you because thatis the futureand I think you are a kind of person whowant to make it so you can use it withotheragents as well because multi- aent isthe future. So keeping that in mind,let's go to our presentation and copyour prompt. This prompt is canban boardapi reference.mmd.So I will give this to our open law andpaste it hereand uh human creates task for agent. Soit has a lot of superbase related thingsand um now we will see what perfect thisis exactly what I needed. I'll read thisas a source of truth and switch ourintegration plan to the AI task endpointcontract not direct table rightsincluding action update for column movesand proper to if you want I'll do theimplementation pass now current taskdata with this API addcreate update assign we want to makethis accessible for other agents to comein and work on our claw body applicationas well.So let's set it up. And mind you, youare setting the whole thing up. Thisdoesn't exist.Are we on the same page?Socodex is taking a long time to get backand uh I feel like you know plot code issometimes even better and actuallyshowing what is going on 100% we are onsame page you want full foundation onpatchwork I started setting this up thatway by dashboard to clab API contractnot mock sbased client calls so verifyproxy call returns task ROM repoconnected and running on the super CLIinstalled project linked commit shippedsuperbase bootstrap current statefoundation is in place. Next isimplementing full task life cycle acrossthe rest of the UI.So if we go to our task board saysloading task mic create for luxurmemory s baseI don't want you totouch or change anythingin the original claw body application.Forget about that for now. Let's onlywork on thisand keep both of them separate.Can we update your memorybased on that?So maybe I'm starting to regret thedecision of making this cloybecause the previous one is also calledcloy and all the task that you areseeing here migrated from that app tothis app and it was so funny that it didthatand I want clear separation betweenthem. Perfect. Uh let's make the appworking on the current Superbase app.Clear all the to-dothings. Move them to done. And uh let'saddour list of things to do in the new app.They arecreating the canban board,testing it, improving it and um the nexttask is to work on AI employees, thephone agent, the email agent and meetingintelligence agentand after that we will work on alchemistwhich is our uh SAS clone or developer.So these are the tasks that I want youto update and assign yourself for thisfor everything.So I quickly want to check what we havein what's going on in Superbase becauseI want to make sure if it's real data orRay just populated what he thought wewant to see on the front end. So we havethe tasks table and we have all thetasks here. Bunch of tasksand which is a good sign. Draft Q1compliance report updating onboarding.UmI'm not seeing all of those other tasksthat were showing up there.Probably they might be something to dowith the front end which weinitiallysuspected.He says that it's wired but I don't seeany solid evidence to that.So it finished running and I see allitems through task done 60 and morecreated new tasks eight. So when I go togo here I see around eight records whichis true but when I come here I see atotal of 68. I think our originalsuspicion was true. But I want toimprove the UI first and thenthen work with this because the UI itsaid lovable prompt but it doesn'tmatter because it will we are usingcodeex and codex will try its best to uhmatch that anyway. So even if it sayslovable prompt I will just paste and hitenter and um it might take some time andum we'll see. So it finished uh domentalso separate from originalbase table shift and commit. So if weopen this let's see the task board nowand we create new taskcreate testthis is a testurgent columnthere is no columnthe board page I see is completely emptyso there is a bit of back and forth youneed to do and that's common for most ofthe agents even So they're good atcoding.So done implemented one page and yourwriter was empty because schema pieceswere missing in super pace not becauseof your UI. So when I go back to thisyes it's here I can see the SID names.I want you to create two tables. One ishuman and the other one is agents. Sofor here you can uh list my name moneyand uh under agents you can registeryour name or uh make it so that an AIagent can register its own name on theplatform. So we also need to startbuilding an integrationguide page within the application whereas we build our API for example we arebuilding tasks. So canban board APIdocumentation how any agent can updatethe rules surrounding it and everythingwe need to do that in parallel. Let'sset that up next.And you heard everything right. What weare doing ismaking the applicationmore robust and moreuser friendly whether that user is humanor agent. Yes, setup done in paralleland in this app what I just implementednew tables in superase human seated withmoney agent seated with ray uh supportsself registrationand integration docsintegration guideamazing so if we go here we have it theintegration guide now we don't havemoney or too muchthis is It's a test.This is a test.The changes I've been making are notbeing saved in the description of thesetasks. Make sure that these tasks areeditable by humans as well. And I'm alsounable to add assignees.So the platform, the property thatyou're building should be accessible andeditable by both humans andAIS.So do you prefer if I authenticatemyself and uh it's easier to setpermissions,create an account for me and um give mea password as well. My email is mnigrowthcreators.ai.So this is what I did when I wasbuilding my previous system because weare building systems that are not secureand not that are not public because thistable can be accessed by a data data APIright uh that's what we call a rolelevel securityif the role level security is ononly then you would be able to uh onlyif you are authenticated you can see it.I still have no clue how Ray is managingto display all of this because he musthave done something to make it. And thisapp I just realized we must need a lotof patience in fixing these applicationsjust by using our natural language. AndI said this,you know, create this for me. And then Iit's a great catch. I fixed theeditability issue first task detailpanel. It fixed it. And I went to theapp and I checked the claw bodyapplication and it update some testdescriptions,but it still did not fix the root issue.XYZand click on save changes. Oh, it didactually. But I'm not authenticated. So,I'm really surprised how it's workingand I went into the superbase and Icreated an account for myself here.Create a new user. I set an email and apassword and I came back to open law andsaid I created an account for myself.Can you check and also make sure I'll beable to edit and add assignees or updatethem and any news user that's createdshould automatically show up in humans.Yes, checked and set. Um, autosync newusers to human and what I found on yourdata display name moneycreators previously gave uh looks likedomain umtypo mismatch. If you want I can alsomerge and normalize too many. Yes. Uhmerge them. And also the next thing thatwe want to fix iswhenever you want to speed up thedevelopment, it is a good thing tomake other agents join in because thereis this is a lot of effort for one agentto work. So let's see our humans uhdatabase are table editor and in tableeditornow openflow is about to merge both ofthemwe'll see which one survives and alsookay merged kept the length humandisplay money if I open this is it goneif I refreshit's still there. Okay. Legacy. This isfine. Legacy. If uh something else islinked there, we need redirected.Okay. If I click on add, I still can'tadd ray, I guess. Yeah. It completelymisunderstood what I mean by addingpeople. If I click on save, it is notsaving.assignees should be drop-down of everyavailable agent and human and also whenI make changes and click on save as auser I'm unable to and also create asign in and sign up page and um thesetup superbase authentication.So now we are doing two importantthings. One it's fixing but two it'ssetting up superbase authentication.If you are completely using thislocally, sure it's fine. But if you wantto access this, let's say on a computersomewhere, and because we are buildinglike a task manager like a missioncontrols or your AI agents plural,you need something that you can deployon a netifi site or any Herokuver, itdoesn't matter. deploy on the internetwhere you can access it from a URL froma laptop somewhere you need to have ifanyone can log in and see you're theonly person who can access it that isnot a great setup at least have apassword to protect the whole thing Ithought we could skip this and maybejust um you know in a future version doit but it doesn't take too long to setup authenticationNow it did two fixes for us. One isassignees are now a trap down post fromall humans and agents. No more free textguessing and also sign in sign up pagesadded. And I'm sure these pages doesn'tlook too great. We can go and check.Yeah, that's what I thought. Um we canwe can just log in with the passwordthat we created. And if you haven'tcreated an account and now would be agood time to click on sign up screen andcreate one. Right now this is just allplaceholder data. We are only working ontask board. So we'll see if uh thischanged anything snee ray and editablexyzand uh if we say hi because we now knowAI agents can probably change this rightbut if we can edit thisprobably by this point we know AI agentscan all the add all the tasks andeverything But I'm more into finding outwhether IOkay, I'm receiving some error. Neuralrelation tasks violates checkconstraint. Uh if mycamera is blocking that uh I will pastethe error here. I will saywhen I try to make change this is theerror that I'm getting when I try tomake uh new changes.Usually it's a database issue thatopenfl should be able to fix it. Sogreat job fixing it. Uh let's seeright noweven before I get changes a change thisis a testI to do I sh to change the whole thingand 19 I probably need to ask to fixthis new subtasks subtask one and selectan SID I will select that myself. Clickon save. Perfect. It is being updated.Now that we have task board, we need toadd something called task pooling.So I need you to pull this new cloudbody applicationevery 1 minute to see if um we are wehave any tasks. So tell me this, are weusing any AIwhen we poll for tasks? Because we needto make these just API calls and AIshould only be used once the task ispresent.So anytime I have a new task here,you're exactly right. polling should bepure API zero commanded flow titrate APIcall. Yes. So yes, AI should only run.Yes. Set this up. And once this is done,once it only does this lightweight APIcall, we will start assigning sometasks.See if it actually working. See if it'sactually pulling every 1 minute. So tomake to show you that this works, I needto add a task something like build ato-do applicationthe simple to-do applicationwith um so and so theme and ummessage me on telegram when it's done orsomething. So that way we will knowa it is picking up task as soon as itcomes in and b you canlet's see is it appi only puller no yeahI use polling what I added it's alreadyrunning polling every minute commit ifyou want I'll add a smaller trigger hopeso when the count it brings work erroryes I want you to be notified um as soonas I add a task. I mean within 1 minute.So it might change something. I'll waitfor its response and start again.By the time uh it's done, we can comeback. Anyway,test task.Build a simple to-do application withCyberpunk theme. Uh it should havevisually pleasingmoving elements, do and hover animationsand it should have um prioritydeadline featuresand use local storage for this.So priority highonce the task is done messageme on telegramand alsosay that is done in the active chatsession and give me the local serverthat you deployed this to.So this is good task is not like a tinything to do and deadline is todayand you need to get started on this assoon as possiblejust in case. Okay, it's weird. It's notletting me create the task itself.Okay, I'm unable to create new tasks.So I might have to refresh the wholething. So I will probably copyeverything just in case I lose. So thereis some legacy task constraintsrequiring fields like these column keyfix applied and