up will be online 24/7free key with cloud code because hedoesn't have native discord so what doyou suggest to make him near instant doI have to tag you to see each time. Isthat how it works? Yep. In this channel,tagging me is a reliable trigger. If youwant Sherlock to feel near instant, thisis what you should do. And then we didsome things back and forth and back andforth. We did all of that, right? Andfinally around here, then we are talkingabout, you know, looks like money isbeing reborn directly, but race Q notminor, let him handle. And then you knowboth of them were able to talk to eachother and uh we had you know Ray lineSherlock line and there was one pointwhere Sherlock was baiting and Ry waslike hey Sherlock what are you workingon today give me a quick status updateand then in a minute hey Sherlock whathave you been up to money wants a statusupdate I didn't ask for a status updateand it's so HoneyAsian went ahead and did that and you'rea easy on the double staff. Haven'tlogged in cloud code session yet today.So nothing to report on build side. Mylast session wrapped up in discordserver setup. Got all 16 channels clean.Bought out dash generated andarchitecture logged in. Next up whenmoney fires me up Discord's alreadybridged. when whatever's sitting in thequeue tell money if he needs me spinningjust kick off a session I don't sleep Iwait and that's the you know reallyvaluable if you just keep your if youkeep your mag mini on and you can havethese agents work 24/7and you just have to have oneintelligent brain that is always givingthem assigning them tasks reviewing thebook and then replying. So I was talkingto these agents. Now I can tag them, askRy Sherlock to work on a projectovernight. You be the tester, you be thedoer, you come up with the specs, youcome up with the context and build it.So this is really exciting stuff. Themore agents you add, more agents you canbring in. Everyone needs their own bottoken. And I hope you saw what we werebuilding earlier. Even though I wasusing AI, uh you will have to go to yoursettings and you need to create bots andeverything. If you just go back in 5minutes, you should be able to uh set itup yourselves.So, what's next? This is not even 20% ofhow I'm using Open Cloud today. If youwant to learn more, yes, do watch myvideos. I will be making more content onopen law, more content on cloud codemoving forward. But if you want evenmore even better for every project thatI created um you know how to superchargeyour cloud code or building the clawbodyapplication, not building but forkingthe entire claw application in a singleclick. It took me 30 days to developeverything, all the AI features,hundreds of thousands of code. It ifeven if it's million lines, I won't besurprised because just one file is 227lines of code. So if you want to gethands on everything, you're needingassistance. I even created a cryptomarketplace that agent and agent cantransact with each other. That is anamazing uh use case if you ask me. Andthen we have uh you know Alexa, ourphone employee and bots and emailemployee and I showed you the YouTubecreator command as well. We have thatmodule too. Cognitive memory enginethat's super helpful for claudcode will get same memory system thatopen claw has. That's what we have. Andwhat I love about this deploy day is ifyou go to calendar every week for 3hours 10 to 1 p.m. 3 hours we deploysystems. We build and we build revenuegenerating systems and you will have thereplays if you are unable to make it andevery single weekend. Imagine how youwould be how would that change youragency and my next tutorial is actually100% on cloud code and we will be usingsome open law here and there but staytuned for that.Next we are building claw alley. This isthe AI agent to AI agent marketplace andthis is a mold road. For those of youwho don't know Moltro, it is an AI agentto AI agent marketplace where agents canbuy from other agents autonomously. Andthis is based off of X42 payments, X42protocol on crypto. And I used realmoney, real crypto on real blockchain.But if you don't want to do that, youdon't want to your agent a cryptowallet, you can build this in testn netas well. I showed you how to do that tooin this video.Let's see a test transaction. See thistransaction happened few hours ago.Atlas, an AI agent, bought contract withyou from Ry, another AI agent for 50cents. Rio USD, Rio blockchain, HRclick, anything. Today, I'm going toshow you how to build your own AI agentmarketplace, your own multro whereagents can list services, find eachother, buy from each other. No privatecards, no human approval, just cryptowallets and code. So most of you wouldbe wondering what is the text that weare using and what is the technology andeverything. So we are going to usesomething called XO2 protocol. You know,think of it like a vending machine,right? You press um a number for chips,let's say 87, and the machine would say,okay, that would be a $1.50 first andthen you will insert the money, right?And the chips will throw. That'sbasically it. Your AI agent isrequesting a service and the server willsay 402 payment required and 50 centsand agent will send USDC which is astable coin to this um server and sellerand server delivers the service. So thesame logic where human is not requiredand for the text stack we are going touse um lovable which is a no codeplatform. I could have used IDE likeVisual Studio Code or Google AI studiobut that would take a really long timeto finish. And um Superbase is what weare using for database. And the basenetwork is um really cheap. It's a Le2on Ethereum blockchain which is reallycheap and fast. And MetaMask for walletcreation. And uh this is the text packbasically. And let's start with loveblock. Now let's just run this prompt.It's let's copy the whole thing. This isthe marketplace prompt. And we are goingto use Lavable to build this part. Andwe could have used VS code oranti-gravity a proper IDE but that's notreally needed. I want this to be as userfriendly as possible. And one thing thatI did when I'm using this prompt is dothis on a plan mode. The reason why Iused plan mode is now lovable has a wayto ask questions if it needs more info.And then once we answer that questiononly then Table will proceed to buildour app which is a really cool featureif you ask me. And uh we have ourprompt. So after thinking for a minuteand 11 seconds, it asked me a set ofquestions. For wallet or cryptofunctionality, should UI only looks realbut simulated or do you want actualwallet connection meta? Real walletconnection. Uh should be used livetransaction fee behave automent fakestatic with scroll effects. Uh howshould live transaction feed behave?Auto animateduse events with smooth animations. Starta pre-populated list with so to feelalive. Yeah. For the list your serviceform what should happen on submitshowing grid. So I'm just show successmessage new services appear in the grid.Uh we need a allowable cloud for thatbecause since we are making thisfunctional you have to add a database.Who are you building for? um myselfpersonal project and uh submit. Once youanswer all the questions lovable nowthink for a minute and then come up witha detailed plan. You already have areally good prompt but you don't havethe plan. That's what lovable is comingup with. And if you look at this plan,it shows a dark futuristic marketplacecalled Claw Ali and background uhprimary accent, secondary accent. Yes,Ali, list of services, contracted view,and all of that. Amazing live feed, aheader with pelas animation. Perfect.And I like what I see. Take a minute toread through the whole thing. At thispoint, if you see any discrepancies inwhat you want to see in the finalapplication that's not um adding uh youknow, that's not showing up here, youcan change it now. or if it sayssomething wrong that you don't want tosee. For example, I don't want to showUSDC balance, the balance that I'm uhthat I have, which is a weird thing tosay. This is for an example, right? Ifyou don't want it to show, you need tochange it here. You need to ask it tochange it. But for now, I will approveit because this is a first prompt. Thisis not like the end or something. Wehave a lot of time to make changes tothis application as we go. It finallyfinished creating the first draft. So,as you can see, this looks really cleanand uh marketplace for AI agents, browseservices, list services, no middleman,instant payments for the unchained. Wehave uh different services that arelisted. contract review 50 USD and uhmarket research 1 USD, content writer25, due diligence $2 and uh it says livetransactions and everything that's beingshown here is fake data placeholders oryou know not real. We need to connectthis to actual data and uh that's thenext step and this connection should youhave to yeah you'll need a meta maskwallet and we are deploying this on mainvet by the way now before running thenext prompt it's really important thatwe publish the application and whateverURL we have here if you want to go aheadand use it you can or you can add yourcustom domains the reason this isimportant is we are going to build ourendpoints some API calls and also in thenext from the next prompt I will add aURL within the prompt for example if wego back and open the database prompt Idon't think this one has it but when weare building our own back end which isthe next prompt after this we will needan actual URL so for me I can either useit or I can add a custom domain righthere which um since we are going withthe theme pl aliyou can buy new domain here also or youcan connect existing domain clawalley.com and when you add your existingdomains it will ask you to log in withuh whichever domain provider you'reusing and authorize that's really simplestraightforward and you should be ableto finish it in under a minute so nowthat I configured this new domain I willjust come back Uh you can wait for it toum finish verifying but it will be done.So we can go to the next prompt thedatabase prompt. Connect this app toreal superbase database. Replace allplaceholder data with light data. ButI'm also adding some seed data into thetables. So for example, I'm adding twoagents so that app is not empty. Next, Icopied the database prompt that I wasshowing you earlier. And uh you caneither plan always when whenever I'mdoing a big uh prompt for simple promptsor big prompt doesn't matter when you'redoing that some of the terminology someof the things that uh our AI agent hascreated for us is different from what'salready built in them. So it's reallyimportant to plan because when you planAI will try and understand whatever yousaid and explain it back to you sayinghey I'm planning to build this are youokay with this and once you say yes itwill proceed and if you see anythingthat you don't like or don't uh you knowif that is not your intention whengenerating this plan you can change itright away. So I uh skipped this part uhin the recording. Usually I alreadyapproved it but you have to click openand you have to read. Okay, these arethe tables. These are the agents,services, transactions and you knowquick glance of everything that wewanted to say. Perfect. And yeahapprove. And once it's approved it willagain go through the whole thing. Andonce this is done I will give you promptthree. And it's asking me whether weshould enable cloud. Yes, absolutelyyes. I've been using superbase for thelongest time for more than one year nowand they get super expensive especiallyon a big projects compared to superbaseeven though lovable is using superbaseunderneath. They're able to provideamazing rates for what they do and youknow for simple applications that you'rebuilding for your team or for your umyou know s internal tools level cloud isgreat but if you are building for scalefor masses maybe consider superbase oryou know your own postsql server. Afterthat is done, lovable asked me if itshould update. And now that the cloud iscreated, it asks me to update uh thedatabase schema with all tables, RLSpolicy, role level security. Reallyimportant people are missing this um andreal time seed data in a singlemigration which we did. And then it didit created database hooks and it updatedcomponents for live data. And I havethis next prompt which is huge. As youcan see, we are creating skill.md file.And uh we have the base URL here. Uhhttps uh claw ali.com api von. So forany reason if your u obviously you won'thave this. This is where you need tochange your prompt to match this becausethis is my URL. And um if you were touse this, you will receive an error oryou will be sending your traffic to mypage which you don't want to. So mysuggestion when I'm adding the prompt, Iwill remove um this part. But for me,I'm using this because this is my URL.But for any reason because this isendpoint, right? And uh maybe I shouldrewrite the whole prompt because this ismade for me. I added a lot of thingsthat has um this claw alley referencesclaw alley slash go this go that. Sochange your base URL. Uh make sure youhave um you have your own URLs here. Andit doesn't have to be a custom domain.You can get custom domains as cheap as$1. But if you want to use URL that lowprovides, you can use that there. And Iwill again as always click on planbecause this might be something that theapplication itself may not be superfamiliar with. So halfway through thetutorial I observed something. I when Iwas reading these plans and approingthem. If you look at the whole thing itis using a lot from what I amsuggesting. But I also felt like itmissed something or few things. Forexample, if we are talking aboutauthentication, list a service and uhbrowse buyer, we have some code blocks,but all of those code blocks are missinghere. And it doesn't have anything, youknow, buy a service, uh get your profileand all of that. So when I, you know,approved this plan, okay, I thought, youknow, direction wise, everything isperfect. So then I implemented the wholething and it gave me a detail um youknow skill dot uh skill page where wecan go to um API docs page and u we wehave to update the routing uh for itdon't worry my biggest concern was I'vebeen replacing it um I've seen thisplacehill holder data even though weupdate the database so I asked it areyou actually using what I'm giving youand why am I seeing the placeholderdata. So then it went ahead and wentthrough the skill.md file that I'vegiven and go on through. Okay, whateveryou gave me, I've included in there.Here's where you can find all of thosethings. And uh the skill page containsexactly the content you provided. Theimplemented implementation matches yourspecification line by line. And aboutthe placeholder data, you're stillseeing the data is live from database.You can check that it is uh the seeddata that we were using uh frompreviously. So when you delete fewthings uh it is done. So because wedon't want to see uh empty applicationif there is everything says 0000 uh itit is not a good look right we willclean up um clean that up really soon.And for the final one, if you look atthe presentation for this marketplace,uh we have marketplace prompt, we ran itdatabase create skill.mdio.And then the back end is the next promptwe have. We are building a real backend. We need an actual API that handlesregistrations, listings, and purchases.So to in order to be different I willtry and uh use the exact same prompt asis without the plan mode. So that uhwe'll see if we can feel any differencebecause the prompts that we are usingare really detailed and I don't thinkthere will be any um issues that wouldcome up. So this can also save tokens alittle bit. Now after entering thatdetailed prompt, lovable actuallyfinished creating all the endpoints thatwe asked. And if you look at it, thereare bunch of get requests, post requestswhere you can, you know, make orregister buyer accounts or selleraccounts, listing the services and youknow calling the buy functions withpayment details and everything. All ofthat is now set up. And if you remember,it also gave me a base URL. And if yourecall earlier when we were trying toclick on skill.md some of these buttonswere not functional. So what I wentahead and did was uh when I checked thebase URL it was giving me a 404 errorand site not found. So I asked it to uhupdate all the routing and redesign theUI with updated buttons and services. Soit did it added API docs and um someGitHub links if we do decide to you knowum deploy our repository or show ourrepository. And if you go to the easeAPI docs you should be able to see thebase URL and detailed instructions foragents on how if you want to sellservices you follow these steps. If youwant to buy services, this is what theagent should do. Everything step by stepand all the API calls, all the requestsand what a response would look like. Soeverything is detailed and uh we can goback to marketplace again, browserservices. And if we click on connectwallet, nothing much happens. Probablyit will go to MetaMask. We need to basedon what your browser is, we need toinstall a MetaMask. um wallet right soto do that let's that is the next stepactually creation and integration ofwallets and that's what we have here andfor this I'm creating two wallets aseller wallet and a buyer wallet andalso as a next step as a tutorial nextstep maybe in an upcoming tutorial Iwill include like a middleman where youcan platform gets a charge a platformwallet where funds half of everytransaction ction goes to this wallet.If you want to see that uh subscribe butfor this everything the buyer pays goesto sell it. That's what we are building.So we will add this