operating andhardening the SOP.Uh not blockers just layer hardening.I need to verify whether we alreadycapture.I know the web hook is already set. Soevent inestion is under replyintelligence works.I want you to set up everything else.So, open class said somethinginteresting.It can take ownership of all the SOP andautomation layer. Thought it was goingto be easy. So, it is asking me to therepo path.I can do that.But I'll letour builder make that call. So itimmediately knowswhat it's um that goad. Okay. So uhour agent wants to share.So when you have two agents like thisworking together, it is amazing. And wejust have to make sure we pusheverything to make because right nowthey are working on a branch like a worktree andif wedon'tthe code that mydeployed to my dev server is notaccurate.have to kind deal with all kinds ofstuff because you think it is workingbecause one agent fixed it but um thatis not live.So we'll have to ask open floor to spinup its own server so we have theupto-ate changes on what we are workingon. So then if I go to cloud code makesure the edge function is alreadydeployed at home good SOP the machineslightly from what already deployedvalues like pending research review dotresearch pendingpending but the end in the lines let meimplement the atom automation layer Ithink I miscommunicated between them alittle bit.When this happens, it's best if we waita minute to see what each otherbecause they can always go back undowhat they did. Writing it is writing theDamon and Chron layer in that repo.That's already server pattern forlongunning workers. So I'm plugging theoutbound automation. So once this isdone, usually we would get somethingthat I have to run in the command linein my terminal because these Damon orChrome jobs are running on the machinenot on open. What we've seen earlierduring setup of the canban board iswe ran into issues when we set that upthat way. It is only ticking. Oh, thepolar is doing the job. It checks. Itsees that there is a job and it quits.Nothing happens. So, we have thisand I don't think it committed changes.It would be really funny if uhboth of them worked on their own thingand nothing worksand don't want to jinx it but can whatyou need to do to run this is what acloud code did. Do you thinkdoes it overlap with what you've done oris it something completely different anduseful?So I will come I will copy all of this.I need to run a bash command and thennpm run it. This is not completelydifferent. It's the same operationalidea.That's a direct overlap on theseresponsibility.My version runs from here code versionruns in more centralized better on backend.So actually then that should be primarysystem Y2local process crown is already wiredlives next to back data pack but it'svery useful but not because it is veryuseful because it actually replaces theone I just addedboth the viewones whose truthfunctioncanon in power. Okay.Okay. I did not run your commands.What is the bottom lineprompt that you want to give to Claude?Should we push that domain?And how do you want to proceed? I wouldlike you to take over thecampaign creation and sendingthis push pers.Awesome. So basically it's asking me tocopy this prompt and paste it to claudeand once that is pushedit is asking me togive whatever response the claude isgiving you to me and I'll take care ofthe rest. So this is really important.The way I did that was Iwrongfully copied instructions from hereto there withoutconsidering the fact that it mightbe coming from me. Sowhat do I mean by that? Some of thesentences that were written in theprompt almost feels like I said it notre said it. It might there is a goodchance that it would misunderstand andbuild the whole thing itself. Right? Sothat's what really happened. When youare dealing with this don'tgive same instruction to two agentsor you would end up like me becausethey're working on different branches.It is fine. I feel like what happenedwas there was a lot of work to do.A schema matches let me verify issuesraised and it gave me a bunch of thingsand I had to fix a lot of things beforeit pushed to main. And there was a bigtodo. I know this is only six but took along time. And then I will share thiswithopen claw. Andbottom line cloud system is nowcanonical made is updated. Automationpath is man while take over campaignalso here. What I want now we use thisoperating model detecting completedproject campaigns. creating outboundjobs, caking research, advancing draftstages, send window enforcement, stoprecord.I handle campaign selection, messagingangle, personalization, quality,approval decision, sender approval,campaign launch. That's a split. SinceMiami lawyers is completed, I shouldpick up the next day cycle. Here's how Iwant to proceed. I want to create anoutbound job as soon as it exists. Iwant job ID. I don't want to be involvedin this process in any way. You set itup and I will send that to Claude.Okay. Wait, let me read the work. Assoon as it exists, I want I'll reviewcopy sign up pro is rejecting tweaks.Then we send in control patch for thefirst my send policy for non blind autosend manually on delete. Send only aftercopy passes volume keep volume tinylearn about scalingand then I want to handle center speeddelete intermission okaymonitor next the idea is I don't playtelephone between you two for examplethe proposal flow that we have cloudcreates a job a task for you on canbanand you pick itor a session spawn picks it up and doesthe work. So if you want to set that up,I can. But this is not somethingI want to be involved in. Good. I agree.You should not be okay. Let it finishbecause it's not letting me read. Okay.When Lord finishes or needs operatorcloud should create task assigned toRay. Put the exact payload and taskdescription. I pull or pick it up andexecute edit outbound jobs and inspectdrafts. Recommendation operating row foroutbound can launch should create onlytask for me and one of these is true.Task format I want plot to use. Usuallythere will be a prompt like this.I will copy this and uh paste it here.based.So you need to start thinking about thisfrom day one. Anytime you are making twoor more agents work together, there hasto be a way for them to hand off work ordispatch work between each other. Thatis true forclaw code assigning tasks toopen claw or vice versa open clawassigning task to cloud code. But rightnow if you really think about it we arenot making cloud code assign tasks inany way. We are using our API key like2.5 or open AI API key anthropic APIkey. We are using AI to process thatsearch and scrape the leads. Once thatis done, a script or a demon or whatsuperase has will run these things, putthese things in motion and ray isautomatically tagged. That is how we aredoing.So there are bunch of tasks that werecreated. um with this motor needs inputand obviously this board needs fixingand I will take a screenshot of this andwe will fix the UI but it's interestinguh if you look at cloud code what it hasbeen doing but installing allverification complete here is the fullstatusI need you to fix the UI of the taskboard.The popup should bewithin the screen. Uh the normal sizepopup and the text within that should bescrollable. Right now it um I think thepopup expands to fit the size of thetext which is making it look ugly.So I won't copy this yet. I willadd the screenshots that we've takentodayor maybe I did notcome here again and uh oneokay we will go back to cloud codeand thisare the new ones that we take screenshotof. I will just copy thisand I will send this. And I'm not sureif Ry already picked it up, but we cancheck whether that went to do. Okay, itdid not go to do. So, I'm pretty sure hedidn't pick it up. Perfect. This is theI wanted.Yeah, take the next step. We have tomake sure that happens automatically,right?I don't have to come here and ask you totake tasksand no telephone. That's what we areaiming for. Whatever you have to do topull that off, you should. So this isnow a matter of prompting open flaw toset or create whatever it needs to getthe job done because this is almost likereinventing the wheel. I don't want tosit here and do all of that. So how Imight have alreadyOkay, let me refresh.Does it have a dev server? Local host8080 is not working.So well maybe I can just click previewhere and watch where it's deployed.Okay. When we go to task boot and clickon this is nice. This is what we arelooking for.Why it says 88?Why is it my Okay, it is working.Taskboarduh needs input now heredo not send until Ray approves how tosend it neighbors for this job.So let's see what Ry is doing. Like Isaid they only show up there after myapproval and after I create thosecampaigns. So you don't have to ask meshall I do this shall I do this if youwant that is not what this is it has tobe automated you are autonomoussometimes you have to spell it out andthis is notwhat you do every time that's just thefirst time thingshould expect me to behave like anoperator 11 with judgmentapproved bug starts rude bug movesexception gets reported you don't haveto babysit me that's how I'll try runfrom here perfect go ahead so if we goto our applicationand uh see what we have here inop center noright now five emails are sent nice sodelivered car excellent lawyer miami.comand Spencer Morgan Lawbox.I wish I could open this and read. Ithink we can go read here on uhor and if you go to emails, we can openwhat695 star reviews and 68clearly built a reputation for results.But I know this this is nice delivered.We will track whetherthey actually openedand all of that. So we essentiallybuiltan AI SDR that can take actions, thatcan send emails, that can scrape leadsand prospectingalso. And it actually has research threedrafted three approved three sent threereply zero.And I haven't seen this before. Now youcan seeimagine 400 500 people. It will treatthis exactly the same. And bankor lawfirms I think it is approved as well.Ray assisted can ban only surfaceresults brokers. No more waiting for youto manually kick me. That's nice. Okay.Add this toumwherever it's relevant your memory or uminstruction identity. I don't know whatI want you to do is you need to followthis exact process and also update thetask when done.Walk me through how are we doing thisautomaticallyand is this reliable and you can do thiswithout me nudging rightso nothing haven't checking because theBangor one is not done yet so this isMiami test lawyers this is done it's notmoved to done yet and this is not evenstarted So, I'm curious to see how thisgoes and uh we'll see if four moreemails delivered, we have a perfectAIDR.Okay, whatever Ray gave me, I asked ittochangethe hard rule that we have. If one leadis not available, it is just waiting.Now I wanted it to send it tothepartially hand of patch. So we go backto open and paste it here and hit send agood operator or handoff is backactionable not perfection created. Uh ifthere is an improved actionable batchcreatordistribablebadges not batch completion.So we go back to open logand uh yeah no relay needed. So we willsee if uh emails went through onOkay, this is actually done.This ispending forOkay, we'll see. So apparently weidentified something. If you're missinglink and aonomy, the zoo task team isrunning, but it only watches or managestask. It does not currently triggerraise main open claw session to executean operator work. Please implement areal reliable dispatch path adjustbehaviorand it takes action of all.Okay, let's see.No more breaking up the chat. It sayscompleted is the summary migrationapplied. Open log gateway enabled andtested race session response. So we havethe whole thing. Now we go hereand um paste everything and hit send andwait for what array says. And this is soimportant to make it work. I actuallygot I was curious. I just but tell methis about the workload we setyesterday. I know it works but I wantedto double check. The thing with uh whatwe already built is it is waking up rayuh it is spawning an agent. I believeold workflow is still usable because oldworkflow is actually the foundation ofthis new workflow. So good that's themissing piece of what this loop means.Uh one important caveat it's not liveuntil task worker is restarted code pathfixed and my readability I want toverify I want this torestartonce this is done it's not I have thisyou know as soon as I give somethingfrom ray to my lord agent and thebuilder here. As soon as I do that, itis going into this deep build mode for 510 15 minutes straight and it's taking alot. Please prestart baselines.Okay, all have null dispatch fields. Nowstart the worker and capture its firststick out.Maybe it's better if we delete theseemails because probablywe'll be rescending some of these. Let'ssee. Open Gloic setup. I don't mindresending emails to three people and uhI think it would be a different emailthis time. Yes, this is the right fix.The only remaining part is we started itverification under live conditions. So,let's see. I received a notificationfrom Ray. Vancouver law firm hasstarted. So it actually picked up thetask.Why did it already pick up the taskbefore?Or maybe as long as soon as itrestarted, it went ahead and uh pickedit up andI don't know what to think about it.So while this is going on, I received anotification sayingI'm treating this as outbound ops statusartifact. I'll create a clean monmonitoring or report page for the joband complete the task with HTML reportover Vancouver law firms.And I find it so funny because the agentpicked it up. The workflow that we didyesterday actually picked it up. I'm notsure whether to besad about this or uh happy because rightnow in the automations if I look atreports it has created this. I don'tknow what to do with report which is notbad in and of itself. It means ourprocess is working but what supposed tobe a simple addition is taking a longtime is my only uh thissent list is still file the worker ispicking it up. We have to do somethingdifferently.So the worker is picking up the tasksand uh finishing them. If you look atreports, you'd be able to see we need abetter flow in my opinion.How can weassign it or should we add a rule burgerand pick no related tasks?So both the tasks were nowpicked up and finished by the work. Theworker is our local demonthat what that's what control the wholething not thesuper base or lord good.So we have that changesfeeling but not the good. The worker isdominant central controller.Worker stays in charge of orchestrationbut it must support routing models. Sono superb base. So not superbasecontrols everything. Cloudthe traffic controller supervises theboard state. I've been giving thesecompleted reports for a while now. Maybeit's better if I ask Lord to stop.Yeah, if I had explainedthis.Okay, tell me your thoughts after this.What cloud code did for usis chalk created and it's uh passit is done dispatched and tled it. Nowthis is the this is the post but notquite final behavior you want yet. Thisreport moves the hard part. Her is nowworking. Worker is alive. Dispatch to mylive. Open claw session works. Dupesand task can be picked up after he startthe stream.Dispatch bridge is real not theoretical.That's a big step. What's still off?Worker only auto picks from to needsinput does not auto dispatch. Someonehas to move them. Similar. That isprobably why the flow still feelsawkward.Okay. Uh the worker actually is notsending the tasks. He's creatingreports. Can you check the reportstable? So will they know how to will claknow how to fix thisjust by this prompt? And we don't needto change anything in our local Damon. Ithink you set up the local Damon.That will pick up the task.So give me the whole prompt again. Andum I will give that to Nord. And youdon't throw away the local demon. Istill need it for other tasks. I wantyou to fix the rest of the things whichisin the novel workflow.Let's start with the cloud prompt.Now I have the clarity that whatever wedid to make it work with canine only butthat worker is doing the job it doesn'tneed memory. It doesn't needinstruction. and doesn't need it can besimple. This is the prompt. This is howyou should do it. I think this is goingto be really long forcloud code.So, previously we had clear distinctiononwhat we want.I thought I was under the impressionwhen we introduced Noah it would be asimilar flow you said if you recall oneof the reasons I said is I don't want tobe a telephoneI will just let claude tag you on canvanboard and you would be able to take overso that is where the whole thing went tocrapIf I was just doing that and made theinstruction itselfso foolproof that it takes the ratetakes the open agent takes it and workson it and gives it back. That flow wouldhave been perfect and we would be in thenext chapter. Nowthe agent for a second when we arediscussing this completely forgot aboutthis local payment that we set up andalso forgot about the workflow that isgoing on until I reminded it again. Nowwhen I pointed out it said okay I havethis as a foundation. I don't want otheragents to do it. I want to do it. I wantthem to wake me up. So I have this fullbrain and full give my all to do thisand when you think about it this mightbe a better flow right so that's thereason why we are doing this and itmight take another 5 10 minutes but wehave something solid foolproof that isdriving superbasis driving so it'salways onand depending on cloud not somethinglocally onIt's done in um so it's not really doinganything. So I copied this. Come backhere. Hit send. Well, do you think thisis the final prompt that we are going togive Claude and uh everything else isdone.So apparently it's not done yet.Obviously I should have waited for it tosay something like this completed or gotit or something. Uh continual task theworld panded.Let's see. Um what do we