it for installation. I know it'sone of the fastest things, but itdoesn't matter if you're using BPS orweb UI, whether that's a BPS or Mac MiniB. Everything that we are coveringtoday, you will be able to take fulladvantage of this. I will not show bothof them but both of them can beconfigured on telegram just as easilyright so we will see how toessentially most of the time the thingsthat I'm sayingeven if I use web UI you can see thesame things in telegram as well and weare going to build an amazingapplication and that works completelyfine even if you are using a webbased Atleast even if you're using a VPS and youare only using terminal DUI.So one thing that I wanted to coverbefore we go to the next sections if youdon't watch this video you will missthis part which is really reallyimportant. Open claw has a habit ofbreaking when you ask it to make configchanges. So I'm not sure if you facethis. Anytime I ask it to, oh, can youadd this sub agent? Can you add thismodel? I really love Alex Finn'scontent. But his best side boys is ohask your open floor agent. It will knowwhat to do. Tell your openly agent dothis. It will do that. Maybe his OPU 4.6did. But even I used Opus 4.6 6 for awhile now and even that was breaking itsown configuration. The issue being weare using brave search orperplexity search at best and theresults that would come up is someoutdated ones from the time they it'scalled flawbot right 2 months ago and itwill try to use that info and try andchange the configuration a bunch ofthings changed it's like I'm giving youa basic example might be one of thereasons it might be not it's likegarbage and garbage outright. If theinformation itself is wrong, no matterhow powerful of a model you're using, itwill break. I came up with this promptdefine agent and agentless minimalconfig only. So what you would do is youwill copy the whole thing. You will copythe prompt and don't ask open claw tofigure it out. All right? Wherever youhave your open flaw agent, you go toyour agent and sayI want you to create a sub agent andthis is the guidelineand you paste the entire prompt that isleft. This is the guideline step one andit will give this output. I set this upfor you. Applied config changesresearcher kept research at minimal thenadded models override researcher subasians model. Now it has other agentsthat ask do you have the API key?No it won't we need to set it up. So thereasonI can stop verifyokay tell me the best way to and secureway to give you API keys.So I will show you the secure way togive API keys and I want you to realizethis is the keys that I'm using. If byany chance if I don't blur it, thechances are I will revoke the key assoon as the video is done. So setlocally. This is practical and mostsafe, right? And the way we do that iswe need to first export it in ourterminal. And so for example, I want togive it anthropic key. Okay. And whereis my anthropic key? I can go tolet's say we want to give the anthropicAPI key and what would I do to give thisan anthropic API key is I will justdo an export anthropic API key somethinglike this in my terminal and then I needto restart the gateway and say hey rightnow open cloud key anthropic API key isavailable as an environment variable. Iwant you to use that and choose that forsub agent and open law is tricky to workwith. I will show what I mean by that.So I went to anthropic and I created atest key which I'm going to delete andalso this account is just for tutorialsand I will delete it once we are doneanyway. So you can see the number ofcredits we have. It's around $8. Nothingmuch. So I can come back and I can go tothe terminal. I was running into someissues. So as you can see here, I triedan approach. It didn't work. And then Idid this echo export this and ZshRC. You can take a screenshot or getthis. And thensourcezshrcand then I restarted the gateway forceit do restart and then I said use sonnetas sub agent to rest right essay I askedyou on it I dispatched your essayrequest to research a sub agent and itsaid open flaw is a kind of tool I'm notexactly sure if this worked we can go toour cloud API and tech go back tobuilding key 8.67 never used so this isthe thing with open claw it said oh Iwill use it and I used it so I will sayyou have to usesub agent sonnet4 or newer this is how to use thatmessages API and look for sonnet 4.6 sixor if you use Opus 4.6 six. I'm okaywith that too.And the thing is you need to also givethe documentation.So send it. So it restarted the gateway.So I want you to create an essay whyopen floor is amazing. And so it finallyworked. I perfect kick to researchersubmission. So I did not know why itdidn't work previously. We did all theright things. Uh did you actually usethis and I gave it the entire thingagain and then I said yes. So can youuse Sonic open law leverage you've beenmissing. So when I go back might evengone down a little bit. So you can seeand we can also see it used on it 4.6like here. So it is a bit tricky. That'swhy I had to cover it even beforeeverything else. So everyone knows thatit's not very easy to add sub agents andspawn sub agents. So let's go to thenext topic.Now that's only one way of savingtokens. having this brain, thisexpensive model so to speak or yourdefault model which is really good andbetter than your other models as a brainand models that are not as expensivelike if you want to use a mini max or aKim K 2.5 these can be your muscleagents who can do the work right so thissetup has helped me tremendously when Iwas starting out and I was hittinglimits with my even with my cloud max200 plan I was hitting in limits. So Istarted doing opus as a control and allthe agents as the mazu. So that is onlyone but we have eight more eight layertoken optimization stack. Now these arethe things that I found out afterresearching a lot of videos. I looked atsome of the well performing videos ofthere are a lot of people who donevideos on token optimization.Am I using everything? No. Should youuse everything? I don't think so. But itis there if you want it. I know peoplewho you know spending$5 a day is expensive for them and it isif you ask me it also depends on whatvalue you are getting from open floorright if you are not using it to theextent that I am if you are not using itto the extent of my client Brian whomade like in 4 days he made close to62,000in um in new client revenue and savings.So, what I'm trying to say here is thereare places where it pays to go all out,you know, getting that $200 CloudMaxplan or $200 CEX plan like I'm doing.But there are times where you just useAI for the basic and the mostwhere you are using AI not for incomegenerating or revenue generatingactivities but your content work oranything to do with productivity you usethose models. So what are these eightsteps that can bring your $150 a monthto $10 a month? I know that's extremethat's a big promise but I want to gothrough one by one. The first one iskilling thinking mode and I have detailsof everything here. Capping the contextwindow, model routing which we talkedabout uh briefly, session resetdiscipline, lean session initiation,heartbeat to Olama and prompt cachingand sub agent isolation. So when you addon one on top of each other, I alsoadded you know how much savings each onebrings you and the time it takes to dothat. So when you kill thinking mode,you are saving 10 to 15 times per calland it takes you literally 30 seconds toset it up. So context uh you knowcapping context window saying this isonly the set context that you would getno more and when you have that you aresaving 20 to 40% of your usual thingsand you are saving and you are doingthat just with one configuration line.That's the same thing with the killthinking mode as well. It's just oneconfiguration line and doesn't takelonger than 30 minutes. Will you lose alot? No, if you are doing something Ipersonally haven't done this but I woulddo maybe three of these at least rightso it's case by case basis you have todecide whether this is right setup foryou so how do you kill thinking modelet's say you have a thinking model kim2.5 thinking right and it when you ask aquestion it thinks and thinks Andanytime it is thinking a lot, it isactually wasting tokens. Right? So ifyou what if you look at this page I haveone line disable in config and everylayer or every thing that's mentioned inthissection helps youevery layer every hack everythingmentioned in this document is detailedso you can read extended thinking is thesingle biggest hidden cost in OpenClaw.When enabled, every API call generatesthousands of reasoning tokens before theactual response. Most routine tasksdon't need it. So this one optimizationalone can save more than all otherscombined. And if you do one thing fromthis guide, you do this. And how do youdo that? You need to go to openlaw.json.And you just need to update this. And ifyou are technical, you can pull this offeasy. You know how to update config. Butfor those of you who are not verytechnical, how do you open this? So yougo to your terminal and typeopen.openflow.This is a hidden folder, remember? Andwhen you click that, it will open it up.And if you are following everything I'vebeen telling you, the way you export theAPI keys, setting them in the as anenvironment variable and askingopen floor to find them. If you arefollowing that method, this config fileshould not have any API keys. I do havesome API keys because I it's a Mac miniand I was lazy. Okay, everyone else. So,what I'm telling you is if you copy thewhole thing and go to any agent, anychatbook, Frontier model, chat GPT claw,doesn't matter. You ask it to make sureyou don't have the API keys, okay? Youwill have to rotate it. It's in chat.You don't want all of that. So, only dothat if you have not used it in thepast. I used API keys in the chat. Ifyou pick your model section, you cancopy that section and go paste in yourchatbot and ask this is the guidelinehow to disable thinking. Usually it'sone line about uh models and you justneed to add this here. open thinkingcolon double quotescurly brace thinking I mean reasoningoff I believe uh if you look at thinkingtype disabled close that's it this oneline followed by a comma should beenough so I will see if we can I canshow you in theart show so I went to claude and saidthis, I'm trying to save tokens and turnof thinking in my openclaw.json. How todo that? Based on your masterclassguide, add this to your openclaw.json,right? It says before agents defaultsmodel this. And before the model starts,you add thinking and colon curly bracestype disabled. And that's layer one fromeight layers tag. the single biggestcosts saver and then layer two rightthere just below that you can setcontext tokens 50,000 and that is twothings just like that so anytime youhave a questionyou only need to go to your chatbotwhichever you're using and asking it tohey implement this guide this is the URLand uh context window gap cappingcontext window model routingAnd this is interesting. Theyadded this recently in one of theupdates. OpenClaw uses Sonnet foreverything, right? Sonnet is excellentbut overkill for checking file status,running commands, routing, monitorframe. HiQ handles these perfectly at12x less cost. So instead of having adefault set model, you can use highQmodel. I was happy 80% of the time. Andif you watch my one of the two videosthat I linked there, the second video, Iwas using Sonnet and I was happy 95 or100% of the time. When I switched toHaiku, it was super fast and it wasreally helpful too and really cheap. Andonce you add these models, you need tohave a rule, a routing rule. Uhsomething like this model selection ruledefault always use highQ. Switch tosonnet only when need this. When indoubt, try highQ first. And uh it's alot of costsaving and also I wanted toinclude some free and ultra cheap heapalternatives which is Gemini flash hasfree tier available. You can use thatfor heartbeats, classification, symbolrouting and deepsek B3. You can use thatfor code uh generation reasoning at afraction of cost. Llama 3.2 free. It's alocal. Kimik 2.5 is available on umNvidia API for free at the time ofcreating this. If it's changed, youstill have these models. That's one ofthe reasons why I did not make an actualtutorial on this. You can find a bunchof videos on YouTube who talk about howto use Kimik 2.5 for free and cloudhighq is general default for 80% of thetasks that you should be using. So youcan use Opus or Sonnet for initialstrategy and route first draft to Kimmyand use HighQ for everything else. Threetiers, one configuration.You cannot go wrong when it comes tosaving tokens.Let's briefly talk about session resetdiscipline. You can check these whetherthis uh session is bloated by forwardslash status and tells youwhether it'sbig session or a small one. And rightnow you see the context is 71kand 26%.And the more I use it here, the moretokens I burn. Man, why are you notpracticing what you preach? You said 50kcontext window. Yes, I did. But I'm on aCodex uh GBT 5.4 and I have a like a proplan, a $200 plan. Even if I wanted to,I'm hitting not hitting the limits. So,I it's okay for me, butnot everyone is usingthis plan, right? So you need this morethan me and also you know check currentusage compact the session keeps contextand reduce token and you can use forwardslash compact to compact theconversation basically think of it likesummarizing everything what was happenedin the past 30 minutes or so and thelean session initiation is the nextstrategy which is default load behavior.It loads 50 KB of history on everymessage. You need to optimize to loadonly 8K of what actually matters. So addthis rule on every session. Load onlythese files. So user identity memory ofthat day if it exists. Do not autoloadlong-term memory, session history, priormessages, previous tool outputs.Whenever user asks about prior context,then we can use memory search on demand.Pull only the relevant data snippet. Uhdon't load the whole file and updatedaily memory logs at end of session withwhat you worked on, decisions made,blockers and next steps. This will saveyou a lot of tokens, a lot of you knowit gives you a lot of peace reallybecause it drives you crazy on how itused to be a really big problem beforeopen claw. Right now open claw has amemory and it persists but AI has thistendency to repeat its mistakes. Right?even cloud code to some of the smartestmodels. If you don't have thatself-improvement, if you don't have thatcognitive memory built in, it doesn'tcatch its errors andcreate a lessons learned like a gotcha.It won't remember. It will repeat thesame thing. So, update memorydaily logs at least at the end of eachsession. So what was before all of this50 KB 2 3 million wasted per session forat least 40 cents per session historybloat over time but now 8 KB only loadswhen needed 5 cents per session leandaily memory logs and heartbeat you canuse Olama you can use Gemini flash youcan use really cheap model like DeepSeek V3 if you want to go crazy But whypay for something you can have for free?Again, not doing it because Idon't have the need to. So, I added theinstall steps how to pull a lightweightmodel just from your command line. Andconfiguring heartbeat also you go toopencloud.json JSON and add this snippetand you can verify Olama surf and thenyou can uh verify it's working. IfHeartbeat was running every minute onpaid API, that's 1,440API calls per day, $5.15just for are you alive checks, right?And it's not even that. Even if you usesome of the cheapest models available,you would still be charged around $5with just that one thing. And next isprompt cash prompt caching token costicAPI.So next we have prompt caching and umyou can see your system prompt andreference materials get sent every APIcall prompt caching charges only 10% ofreused context within a 5 minute window.So you need to set this up and what tocache and what to not. System prompts,you can do all of that. Do not cachedynamic data, daily memory logs, recentuser messages and all of that. Why do weeven do this? Because like I said, it isnot as expensive as regular tokens. Soif you look at the cach ahead hitsrefreshes and alsoinput tokens and output tokensif you look at IQthe cache is much lower. So if you go toanthropic API for an example so and uhI've if you read it here anthropicprompt caching allows input tokens arebuilt when you reuse the same promptprefix uh here's the token structureinput $3 per million tokens outputs $15per million tokens but if you read herenormal token input 100% uh is three casha right the first time cost versusnormal. Because we are doing this, weare going to get a benefit towards theend. They charge you a bit of extra$3.75.Then when you reuse it, you're onlycharged 10%. Like 30.When you reallyload the whole thing over and over againin a what hour conversation session thatyou have, if the caching is off, you aresaving essentially saving at least forthis part the parts that are reloading90% of the cost. It's really great.People are missing it. Even if you umhave model that is not as expensive, youshould still do this because even if youtake Kimmy 2.5 API pricing and this isthe final one we have sub agentisolation what is this multi- aentcoordination