does that.Let's make it happen. Create a newagent. I'll give it a basic prompt. Youare a research expert. You will useGemini in headless mode to research. Useit like this. That should do it. Let'scheck in our home lab guru. Yeah, hefinished up. So, looking back at ourhome lab guru, he used 40,000 tokens.Just himself, fresh employee. Let'scheck our context for this conversation.We only used 4,000 more tokens for that.It was 85. Now, we're at 88. All right.Now, let's find the best AI terminalvideos on YouTube. Use the Geminiresearch agent.And look at that. It's using Gemini tosearch. We're having an AI use an AIright now. There's the prompt. I want tohit control O. Let's check on our multi-aent. See how they're doing. They'restill working, man.All right, it finished up. Our agentused Gemini to find the top 10 videos.But this next feature is tied with howawesome agents is. And I'm embarrassedto say I just found this out whilemaking this video. Now, Claw Code, itwas built for coders. It's in the name,but I hacked it kind of. Cloud code hasa feature called output styles. Look atthis for/output style. We got a fewdefaults in here. And these essentiallycontrol the system prompt for claw code.How it's going to respond to you, thepersona it has. The default is code andthat's what we're using. But we canchange that. Let's create a new one. SoI'll go back here, type in output styleagain, and do output style new. It'sactually an agent. I didn't know that.Let's just be simple. You are a home labexpert designed to help me create thebest home lab possible. That's it. Now,we can get a lot crazier than that, butyou get the idea. And that's it. If Itype in output style, there it is. I canadopt that right now. Or when I back outand I jump back in, I think it shouldadopt that style by default. Yes, itdoes. You can create output styles thatare tied to just your project or as awhole. Whatever project you jump into,you can switch to those output styles.I'm using the output style right now tomake this video. You want to see it?Script writing output style. And this iswhat it looks like. It's pretty intense.Optimized for what I do. Now, honestly,this entire video could be about Claude.There are so many features. Like, youcan do shift tab to cycle between modes.One of my favorites is planning mode.Hit shift tab there. Plan mode on.This will put a very well thoughtoutplan together. And then you approve itand then it just does it like there itis. And no, keep planning or yes, let'skeep doing it. And there are so manythings I can't dive into them. Like theyhave prompts, hooks, custom statuslines, you can paste images into yourterminal. But here's the thing. I don'tjust use claw code. I use Gemini. I useclaw code and I use codeex which ischadbt's terminal tool all at the sametime. Let me show you how. Gemini claudecode chadbt's codeex. I'm using allthree right now to work on this videoscript. How? Two steps. First, as longas I open up Claude, Gemini, and Codeexin the same directory, they're all usingthe same context. It's the same project.Let's do that right now.Claude, Gemini, if I spell it right, andCEX. The second thing I do is I makesure my context files are all synced up.They all say the same thing. Sogemini.mmd, claw.md, and agents.mmd,which is what codeex uses, and they'retrying to make it a standard. They'reall the same. And I usually have aterminal open for each one while I'mworking on a script or any kind ofproject. Watch this. I'll tell Claude towrite a hook for this video. Authorityangle. Write it to authorityhook.md.I'll have Jimi write a hook on adiscovery angle. write it todiscovery hook.mmd and then I'll havecodeex review itand that's normally what I do. I findjadbt is very good at analyzing thingsfrom a high view. Gemini and cloud arevery good at the work the deep work andlook at it go. They're all using thesame context different roles. I mean Ihave three different AIs working on thesame thing at the same time. No copyingand pasting. They can see each other'swork. They're working in the samedirectory. That's awesome. And it'sdone. Looks like Claude won this one.Good job, Claude. Now, are you seeingwhat's happening here? This is thecraziest part about this. Everything I'mdoing, talking with these threedifferent AIS on a project. It's nottied in a browser. It's not tied in aguey. It's just this folder right hereon my hard drive. I can copy and pastethat folder anywhere. All the work, allthe decisions, all the context, it'smine. And that's the difference. Nothingannoys me more than when Chad GBT triesto fence me in, give me that vendor lockin so I can't leave. No, I reject that.I own my context. If a new, greater,better AI comes out, I'm ready for itbecause all my stuff is right here on myhard drive. I will use all AI. I willuse the best AI. No one can stop me. So,I got a little excited there. And that'swhat I want you to take away here.Leaving the browser, going to yourterminal, puts you back in control, andit gives you better features. But now, Iwant to get real practical. I want toshow you exactly how I run a projectlike this. how I keep things in sync,how I keep my Claude, Gemini, and agentsfiles in sync and work on a daily basisusing a system like this. I'm going torefill my coffee. I'll see you there.Okay, this video was made with thisprocess. First thing I want to show youis how things are synced up,specifically my Claude file, my Geminifile, and my agents file, which iscodeex. It's an agent. That's all it is.So, if I get back to my terminal here,where I was showing you earlier when wehad our hooks developed, Claude madeone, Gemini made one, and Codexcritiqued it. I'm rely on Claude to runmy agent that will close out everything.So, I'll just normally do this. When I'mdone for the day, I'll go, "Hey,let's close this out." Run. And I'llmention my agent script session closer.Let me show you what that looks like.This is one of those agents I keep as apersonal agent. I use it for manyprojects. And these agents are justfiles. They're files inside an agentsfolder.I'll c that file here. Script sessioncloser. And here it is. It does a lot ofstuff, but some of the key things itdoes, actually, while I'm talking withyou about this, I'm going to go and runthe agent because we did some stuff,didn't we? I'll run the agent. Butfirst, it'll gather everything we talkedabout, everything we did, and do acomprehensive summary. It will thenupdate a session summary file that'sspecific to just updating what are somethings that were done in the pastsessions. It will see if any coreproject files need to be updated. And ifI'm talking with Claude, it will updateevery context file. Claude, Gemini,agents. And then this is probably myfavorite part. I commit my project to aGitHub repo. So, normally you would usegit for code, right? For writing anddeploying code. I treat my scripts andpretty much every project I work on inmy life like code. We commit thatchange, give a reason for that change.So, I can see a history of why what Idid and why I did it. Maybe somethingbreaks. I can go back to that change andreinstate it. That's the power of usingGitHub with all your ideas. Now, this iskiller for me because I'm really bad atdocumentation. I'm really bad at keepingtrack of things, but now I have thishelp me keep track of things. So, whenI'm really tired at the end of the dayand like I've been working on a videoand my mind is fried, I'm like, "Okay,tell you what, I'm done. Close thisout." It will look through all thisstuff. It will figure out where I'm at,end the end the project, end the day,where where I need to be, and then I canstart fresh the next day and be like,"Hey, um, where we at? What are weworking on?" It can tell me, "Hey,Chuck, you finished the script. It'stime to record. We made these threedecisions. Go for it." That's it. Like,this this is the tool I've been lookingfor. The syncing is probably my favoritepart. No, no, actually, this thing is myfavorite part. How it roasts me. So, Idon't really use these AI terminal toolsto help me create. I use them tocritique me and make me better. So, hereare my critics. These guys are sostinking mean. And I designed them tobe. They are agents. I got the brutalcritic. I told him to be mean. So, I hadan issue where my AI was being way tooagreeable. Like, I'd write a writesomething and be like, "Oh, Chuck, bestthing you ever wrote." I'm like, "Ah,you're gaslighting me. Stop it." Iwanted something to be super mean. Iwanted to be hard to please. So, thatwhen I when it did tell me I did a goodjob. I knew it. Like, it was good. Andthat's what this thing does. So, like,actually, I'm curious if my script rightnow is any good. I actually have notused it yet on this, which I normallydon't do. It's bad. Um, let's see. I'llsay use the brutal critic to absolutelyroast and verify my stuff is good inthis script. I'll just reference myscript because again everything's a filelocal here on my file system. I mean youcan just move so quickly and nimly whenyou have a system like this and theagent's going to go. It's going to doits thing. And again what I love aboutthis is while I've been talking withthis AI for a minute, right? We've beengoing back and forth doing things. If Iasked that session to review me, itwould have a ton of bias coming intothat based on like what we've beentalking about. I don't want that. I wanta fresh cup of coffee critic coming ingoing, "Here's what I know Network Chuckneeds to have." And I'm going to roasthis current script on what he's doing.That's what I need. And notice it wasreally quick. Editor Fream on that. Ihave inside it instructions to read someframework documents I have that describehow I create and describe like what mything is, who my audience is. Again, Idon't copy and paste. I got contextalready here. You can reference that. Ilove this so much. This is my favoritething. I had to make a video about thiscuz I wouldn't stop telling my wifeabout it and she was going crazy.>> Whenever he talks to me, I it just goesin one ear and out the other.>> I tell everyone about this. I'm actuallyreally scared about what it's going tosay. Oh no. Okay, [laughter]let's see what it said. Said when I fixit, it'll be good. What did it tell me?Oh, it's an 8.2. That's not bad. No, Iforgot I did this. The brutal critic hasthree personalities or three people thatcome in and roast it from differentangles. I forgot I did that. It'sinsane. Okay, I don't like this. I'm notsure I agree with this. We'll see. Itsays segment five is a feature dump.Nine features, zero depth, 5 to 8%retention drop, which means you'll stopwatching. Let's prove it wrong. Segmentfive is coming up. We're currently insegment four. Jump there if you want to.I don't care. Tell me if it's bad. It'sactually really cool, I hope. Butseriously, doing stuff like this savesme hours. Now, also I want you to knowthis, like it's not writing for me.Like, I'm doing the writing cuz I I liketo keep that. I think that's importantnow with AI, but I do have AI like roastme, help me stay on track because I getdistracted. I might make some really badcreative decisions that aren't in linewith what we're trying to do. Now, thepoint I want to hit home is that I madethis for me. This is my own personalsoftware, exactly my use case. What canyou build for you that's just for youand your niche and whatever you'retrying to make make happen? And this isjust one tool I've made. Look at theother stuff I've done. That crazyproject I showed you in the beginning[laughter] was running like sevenagents. This is a customuilt projectjust with cloud code. And I'm going touse it right after I record this. It'sgoing to go through every every file.It's going to transcribe it, read it,and give my editors notes they need tobe able to edit this video. Like, hey,Chuck repeated himself 17 times in inthe fourth video, and it's a disaster.Ignore that one. It will do that.Seriously, the tools I create are sopowerful for me. I wake up every dayfeeling like I have superpowers. I wantthis for you. Now, speaking ofsuperpowers, let's talk about segmentfive. There's a tool that's actuallyopen source. Now, you can use any modelyou want with this open-sourcealternative. And it might be the besttool of all of them. I'm still testingit. You also get Grock free, which ispretty sick. And a really powerful partof this is you can log in with yourCloud Pro subscription and use it likeCloud Code. Let's play with it. It'scalled Open Code. We can install it withone command. I'll have all thesecommands below.installing. That was quick. And that'sit. If I can just launch open code. Justtype it in like this. That does it. Oh,let me uh do a source because it adds tomy bash rc file. You might have to dothis, too. sourcebashrc. Now, let's try it. You can open andclose your terminal and do the samething. Oh, we're here. This is opencode. A nice 2 terminal user interface.Couple things real quick. They launchedus straight into Grock code fast one.They have a deal with Grock AI thatallows you to use this for free for awhile. So, same story. Hey, Grock Code'shelping us. Even knows like, hey, can Ihelp you with your coffee project? Nomass stuff.So, it read the document and it can doall the stuff. Okay, cool. I'm going toexit out. We can use local models. Thisis the killer part. I don't think anyother tool does this, but we have to uhedit a file. So, I want to nano and Ithink it's insideconfigopen code. Yeah, that's the directory.And then I think the co the file has tobe open code.jsonC. I'll paste this in here. I'm going touse uh let's do llama 3.2. I thinkthat's what I have installed. We'll findout. I'll save that. Let me see. Oh,llama list. See what my models are. Do Ihave 3.2? I'll pull it down if I don't.And then when I launch open code againwith that config in place. Oh, wait.What did I break? Let me fix that filereal quick.There we go. I should be able to goforward/model and change to llama 3.2.Hey, cool. Llama works. If I back out, Ican log into cloud with this command.Open code o login. I can chooseanthropic with my cloud pro. And I'lllaunch this browser.Paste this code in there. And now I'mlogging the cloud code. I just launchopen code now and switch models tocloud. Sonet 4.5 and we can pick upwhere we left off. I guess again all ourfiles are local. Doesn't matter whattool we use. It's all ours right here. Ican switch models midway. Let's go backto Grock. Cool. What's our next step?Cool. While it's doing that, I can donew session. This is a new session. Pushmodels to claude. I can do sessions. Seeall the sessions I have. Why do I haveso many? Oh, these are my past sessions.We can also share these sessionsfor/share. And watch this. This is socrazy. I think is it going to do it? Oh,the URL is copied to my clipboard. So, Ican go to my browser, paste that URL in,and I can I mean, look at that. That'sawesome. Wait, is it live?You can share your session with people.That's pretty neat. Okay. Um, we can dotimeline. We can jump back in time andrestore. I guess like if we don't likehow far we've come in our conversation,we just go back. I want that in reallife. That's awesome. We can also, if Ijump out of there and do opencode--help,they've got agents. You can start an aheadless server. You can attach toheadless servers. Export your session asJSON data. I mean, this this tool ispretty cool. And the fact that you canlog in and use your Cloud Prosubscription, like that's that's nextlevel because otherwise you're puttingin an API key and you're paying per use.And that's a whole nightmare. I don'tI'd rather pay up front. What's fun isI've been following these guys onTwitter before they started making thiscode open code. This guy Dax, these guysare killing it. So, how do you feelabout your browserbased gooey AI now?Pretty bad, right? Kind of feels likehammer and chisel or chisel and hammer.I never know how to say it. Cuz now youcan control your context. Break out ofthat browser, that chat window, anddon't let the terminal scare you. Imean, I know it's kind of intimidatingif you're not used to working in theterminal. If you can get past that, thistool is for everyone. Everyone should beusing this. Like, make everyone usethis. I'm going to make my kids usethis. I don't know about my wife. I'mnot sure if she's going to do it.Seriously, nothing is stopping you fromtrying this right now. Gemini CLI,that's free. Open code, you can runlocal models if you're worried aboutthat. And while Cloud Code is paid, it'soverpowered. Like, you saw all thosefeatures. I I use that every day, dude.Just you got to try it. Dip your toe inthe water. It's fine. It's awesome. Youwill feel like you have a superpower andbuild whatever you want. Now, do youwant to go even deeper? You can addtools, MCP servers to any of theseterminal environments. I made a videoabout doing MCP servers here. You canadd it to all these. Check it out.That's the video. I'll catch you guysnext time. Oh, by the way, have youhacked the YouTube algorithm today? Justmake sure you do. Hit that like button,subscribe, comment notification[laughter]bell. You got to hack YouTube today.Ethically, of course. Oh, and also letme know which is your favorite terminalAI tool. Or if if you even care. LikeI'm curious. Do you care about this?Because I care a lot, obviously. Tell mebelow. Yeah, that's it for real.Hey, you made it to the