If you're still using AI in the browser,you're doing it the slow way. You see,each of these apps has a terminalversion, and they make me 10 timesfaster. I'm getting so much work done.And the AI companies are kind of quietabout this. They're marketing thesetools to developers for code. But here'swhat they're not telling you. [music]You can use them for everything. Andit's way better than their apps.Writing, research, projects, working inthe terminal is a superpower. I'm aboutto show you why. I'm literally writingthis video with these [music] toolsright now. And most people have no ideathis is a thing. But I'm telling you,once you see AI in the terminal, you'renever going back to the browser. So getyour coffee ready. We're going to myfavorite place, the terminal. But holdup before we go there. I know whatyou're thinking. Chuck, I use AI justfine. Do you? Tell me if this soundslike you because this is how I used touse AI. You're in the browser or app.You're asking questions. Research mode.You're diving deep into a project. Can'teven see your scroll bar anymore. Andthis is your fifth chat because chat GBTlost its context [music] or its mind.You also created a few more chats withClaude and Gemini to make sure Chat GBTwasn't lying. And yeah, you tried tocopy and paste some stuff into yournotes app to keep track. That neverworks. At this point, your project is a[music] mess. Spread over 20 chats, twodeep research sessions, and scatternotes. There's a better way to do this.Hear me out. It's in the terminal. Now,we're not going to waste any time. We'rediving straight into the terminal. And Iknow you probably have some questions.Put those in your pocket for a second.We'll address those. But I first justwant to show you what it looks like. Iwant you to try it so you can know it'snot really scary. The terminal is a funplace. And we're going to play withGemini CLI first. Why? Because it has avery generous free tier. That's right,you heard it, free. Now, I'll show youClaw Code in a second. That's myfavorite by far, overpowered. But theyshare a lot of the same concepts. Let'sjust get you going. We can install itwith one command. Now, go ahead andlaunch a terminal. It doesn't reallymatter where you launch it. Mac,Windows, Linux, all these terminal appswork everywhere. Great. For me, I'mgoing to use Windows with WSL or theWindows Subsystem for Linux. If you haveno idea what that is, it's totally fine.I got a video right here. So, I'lllaunch my Ubuntu terminal. Zoom in soyou guys can see and we'll copy andpaste this command. Installing GoogleGemini CLI. Ready, set, go. Coffee breakwhile that goes. Never chucked ourcoffee. And if you run into a scaryissue, run it with pseudo just likethis. And if you're on Mac, you can alsouse brew. Brew install gemini- CLI. Nowit's installed. Before we launch it,we're going to make a new directorymkdir. Then we'll call it coffeeproject. Just like this. And let's jumpin there. cd coffee project. Now we canlaunch Gemini. You'll see why I did thishere in a second. Type in Gemini. Oneword. Ready, set, go.We're here. Now, first, isn't that logojust awesome? I love the terminal. It'sso nostalgic. Now, first thing you'll dois get logged in with your Googleaccount. Everyone has a Google account.And yes, this can be a free regularGmail account. It's going to open yourbrowser, sign in, and I'm logged in.Now, don't be scared. Go ahead, ask it aquestion like, "How do I make the bestcup of coffee in the world?" I love thelittle messages they give us. hurtingdigital cats. It's doing a Google searchright now. Pretty sick. Crafting theguide. And then it responds just likewe're used to. That wasn't so bad, wasit? But notice some superpowered things.First of all, we got Gemini 2.5 Pro, thelatest and greatest model. Also, thebrowser doesn't show you this 99%context left. Every chat you have withAI has a context window. The browserhides it from you. The terminal doesnot. Also, your browser can't do this.Watch. I really want you to find thebest way to make coffee. Research thetop 10 sites. only reputable sources andthen compile the results into a documentnamed best coffee copymethod.mmd andthen create me a blog plan just anoutline. I'll do the writing. Ready,set, go. All right. Now, it's asking usa question. Do you want me to write afile for you? Do you want me to create afile for you? Yeah, dude. Go for it.This thing can do everything a[clears throat] browser can do, but ithas a superpower. It can access yourcomputer. It can read and write files.Like, I'm not copying and pasting this.It's doing it for me. I mean, look, itactually made files on our computer.There they are. Best coffee method,coffee blog. Think about that for asecond. It can access your Obsidianvault, all your notes, because those arejust files sitting there on your harddrive. It can run bash and Pythonscripts. It can do mostly everythingbecause we broke it out of the browser.Anyways, back to the terminal. If wetype in for/toolsand hit enter, you can see all thatGemini is allowed to do. You can evenadd more tools. But this feature righthere is what made me switch from thebrowser to the terminal. Watch this.Type in for slashinit.Just like that. Go. What it's doingright now is something powerful. It'screating a gemini.md file. And in theprocess, it analyzed our project, readour folder, read our files, and yes, goahead, buddy. Create that file for me.What it just did there was createinstructions for itself, context forwhat we're working on. Let's take a lookat it. Catgeemini.md. And while wedidn't do much in this project, it knowsit knows what's going on. And every timeyou launch Gemini, it's going to loadthat file as its context. Like, let'stest it. So, we still have our Geminisession open. I'll open up anotherGemini session in that same directory.This is a new conversation. Freshcontext 100% left. Notice it's using ournew Gemini.md file. And I'll tell itthis. Write the intro for blog post onein the coffee series. No more context.Just that. It should know exactly whatI'm talking about. Look at that. Yep. Goahead, buddy. I didn't give it anycontext. It just knew. This is a newchat session. And as I work, I can justask Gemini to update that file with mythoughts, research, decisions we made,the progress of our project. And look,it added a summary to what we wereworking on to our Gemini.md file. I canclose all this, start up a new session.It picks up where we left off. Noreexplaining the context, no startingover, no more 20 scattered chats. Wejust had this one file that helps keepus organized. Everything you need.You're never paralyzed again. Now, whenI saw this, I'm like, this is it. Ifinally have control over my context, myfiles, my projects. They're not stuck insome browser chat session anymore.They're right here, sitting on my harddrive. Mine, my precious. Now, I'mliterally using the gemini.md file rightnow for this project. This is a smallexample. Let me show you a big one. Thisis the gemini.md file for this video. Ittracks everything. It describes how Icreate project status, major decisions Imade, even other documents it shouldlook at. Yeah, it can do that. I'lllaunch a whole new Gemini session inthis project and I'll ask you for wherewe're at in the project.Are you seeing this? This has completelychanged the way I create or do anythingnow. And I don't just use Gemini. It'snot even close to the best one. Let'slook at Claw Code, my daily driver. ThisThis one's so crazy. Now, real quick,time for a coffee break and a bit of aPSA thanks to our sponsor, Twinate. Now,I'm teaching you and millions of otherpeople how to use AI and the terminal,which will also give AI access to yourcomputer and all your files and accessto do pretty much anything. This iscool, but also really scary. Especiallyscary if they're a remote employee.Because not only does your remoteemployee or just remote person that yougive access to your lab or your internalnetwork have access to everything over atraditional VPN, if that's what you'restill using, I'm talking your servers,file servers, NAS, because that'snormally how traditional VPNs work. Ifsomeone has remote access to thenetwork, their computer has access toeverything in the network, which meanstheir AI may have access to everythingin your network. This is insane and it'swhy traditional VPNs are dead or atleast should be. You should be usingTwinate instead. Twing is all about zerotrust network access, meaning they zerotrust people connecting to your network.And you should zero trust them too. WithTwing your employee is given access tonothing unless you explicitly give it.So Beatatric here, she's on themarketing team and given access to theNAS, but only the NAS and nothing else.And definitely not access to the supersecret file server where we keep all ourcoffee recipes. No, no, no, no, no, no.And Twing takes this to the next level.This is one of my favorite featuresright here, trusted profiles. You canmake it to where not just any device canconnect to your network and it will dochecks to see like, hey, are theyrunning Android? Sorry buddy, you're outof here. Because iPhones are clearlybetter. Everyone agrees. Or if they haveWindows, we can make sure hard driveencryption is required and they havescreen lock and a firewall and antivirusand their OS is up to date and we canblock Windows 10. All these checks willhappen before they're allowed to connectto your network. This is crazy becauseit's also free for up to five users. Ifyou're a business, it's a no-brainer.But for like a home labber, you seenthis? You can geek out with someenterprise security. It's just fun. Andspeaking of enterprises, if I create atrusted Windows profile, I can connectthis to my CrowdStrike, Intoune,Jensen1, whatever EDR or EDM I have, andhave that tell me if that device issecure or if it meets my standards. Now,me and my team, we use Twate everysingle day. If you're still usingtraditional VPN, you're crazy. Try outTwing. You can set it up in about 5minutes. And it seriously is the best,most secure way to access your home labor your business network remotely. So,go check it out.twinggate.com/networkchuckor check the link below. Thanks totwinate for sponsoring this video andthis channel. They help make my videospossible. I love my partnership withthem. Anyways, coffee break over. Backto the video. Now, I use Cloud Code,which is Claw in the Terminal, forpretty much everything. It's my default.And here's why. It has a feature thatchanges the game. Agents. Like, look atthis. I have seven agents performingtasks right now in one terminal.Actually, there's 10. And listen, that'sjust one of the seven features it hasthat keeps me glued to the terminal.Now, Cloud Code is not free, but I dohave good news. If you already pay forCloud Pro, which starts at like 20 bucksa month, you can log into the terminalwith this subscription and use it. So,yeah, you don't have to use API keys.And by the way, if you can only pay forone AI subscription, Cloud Pro is theone I would choose, especially for thelast feature I'm going to show you. Now,let's get it installed with one command.We'll copy and paste this bad boy righthere. npm install. You get it? Now Ialready have it installed. It shouldtell me that. Or ask me to do pseudo. Ityelled at me again. I'm sorry. And thenwe'll launch Claude very similarly toGemini. Just type in Claude in yourdirectory. That's it. It will prompt youto get logged in and then ask permissionto access this folder. Yes, of course.Now again, don't be afraid. Ask Claude aquestion like, "I need to find a NAS formy house. Here's my budget, what I wantto do. Create a report for me." And justlike Gemini, it does have some funlittle messages for us. It will searchthe web. It's got this nice TUI,terminal user interface. Oh, whoops. Ourthinking is off. I can press tab to turnon thinking mode. Now we're thinking.And notice it is security first. Like itdoes ask you permission to do mostthings. And that's good. We can get pastthat here in a moment if you're feelingdangerous. I am. So it responds similarto Gemini. And it can also have acontext file, too. If I run that samecommand forward slashinet, it willcreate what's called a claude.md file.Noticing a trend here. And it's doingthe same thing, looking through ourproject, trying to figure out what'swhat, and creating a context file. Andalso, similar to Gemini, we can dosomething like forward/context,which is so crazy. We can see exactlyhow many tokens we've used, how much wehave left, and exactly what's using it.But what's funny with Claude, thatdoesn't really matter too much as longas you know how to use their mostpowerful feature, agents. Let's make aClaude agent right now. It's reallysimple. We'll do for/ agents. Just likethis. We'll get a terminal menu andlet's create a home lab research expert.And I'll just tell it that. So, create anew agent. Notice it'll ask us likewhere where do you want to make it?Because you can have agents that aretied to just this project we're workingon or personal agents that are tied toeverything. You can always call them.We'll do just this project. We'll usecloud to make it. We can tell it what wewant it to be. Just gonna paste this inhere and let it go to work. Notice youcan give it access to tools or restrictaccess. We'll give it everything. Chooseour model. Sonnet's great auto color.There's our agent. Press enter to save.And we'll hit escape to get out of thatinterface. And we just made our firstagent. Home lab guru. But what's thepoint of that? Because I kind of feellike we can just ask Claude to doresearch for us because we literallyjust did that. You're right. But watchthis. I'm going to do a for/context oncemore. so we can get our baseline. We'veused 85,000 tokens. I'll give it thisprompt and I'm calling it home labagent. It'll figure it out. I'll have itcreate a document and I'll say make sureyou referencethe research we made. I can just do anat symbol and look at the documents inour directory as the NASR folder. Therewe go. Watch. It's going to use the homelab guru agent. There it is. There's ouragent researching for us right now. Now,here's why this is amazing. Actuallykind of insane. So, Clob was like,"Cool. I've got a task, but it's not forme. I'm gonna delegate this task to oneof my employees or one of my co-workers.And this is another clawed instance.It's like a guy sitting over there. He'slike, "Hey buddy, are you busy? Here'ssome work to do." He's giving him afresh set of instructions and get this,a fresh context window. You saw just nowwe have 200,000 tokens in our contextwindow. We use 42% of it. This guy, he'sgot a fresh 200. That means theconversation we're having right now, meand the main claude guy, it's protected.It doesn't get too bloated. I can givetasks to other sub agents and never haveto leave this conversation. Claude justdelegated this task to a new agent. He'sgot a fresh pot of coffee. He's he'sready to go. He just walked into work.And you can create a ton of differentagents for different purposes. I usethem all the time to protect my contextand avoid any kind of weird bias. Likefor example, here's my YouTube outlinefor this video. I'll normally be workingwith Claude on an outline like this. Andoften the context window can get prettybig. Like this is where I'm at rightnow. And let's say at this point I wanta comprehensive review of my outline. Ihave a brutal critic agent. I can justdeploy. Hey, let's have I'll just do atand call him. There he is. Agent brutalcritic. Review my outline. And by theway, this is a fun one. It's designed tojust completely roast me according tothe framework I have and the scriptinggoals. And it just deploys it. Myconversation is still sane, but I have anew energized employee. Just got a newsub. Coffee in hand, fresh eyes, readyto go. Like, look at him go. And you canrun multiple agents like I showed you atthe beginning of the segment. Let's gocheck on our home lab agent. Actually,he's been kind of busy. Oh, he's stillgoing. We're going to have the best homelab ever. And by the way, we can hitcontrol O to see what he's doing. Oh no,I interrupted him.I interrupted. Sorry. Keep going. Don'tmind me. Actually, let's open up a newwindow. Jump into our project, which westill have coffee project. It's okay.It'll figure it out. Launch Claude inthere. He's got his cloudmd file. Heknows what's going on. And let's runthis prompt. We'll launch our HomeLabagent to research the best Proxmoxservers. At the same time, do a generalagent that'll just search for the bestpizza place in Dallas, Texas. And thenanother HomeLab agent that'll find thebest graphics card for gaming right nowand put it all together in acomprehensive report. Let's go. Now,that's doing its stuff right now,deploying new employees. Over here, I'vegot the Home Lab guru working, findingthe best network equipment. I feel sopowerful right now. This is so fun.Yeah, there the three agents go. Ofcourse, you got to give it permission tosearch the web and stuff.a lot. Actually, I'll show you how toget past that here in a moment.Actually, I'll show you right now. Um,I'm going to actually interrupt them.I'm going to hit control C to get out ofthere. Control C twice. We can run thisswitch. And actually, I'll do claw- r soI can resume a previous conversation.Yes, you can do that. And then I'll dod- dangerouslyskip- permissions. This is claw withouttraining wheels. Ready, set, go. We canchoose that previous chat we had. Let'sdo this one here. Yes, I interruptedyou. I'm sorry. Go ahead and do itagain. And notice right here, bypasspermissions is on. Go.Now we're cooking, man. Look at this.Three employees, fresh cups of coffee,just going. I told you the terminal wasawesome. Let's get crazier. I'll createanother tab because no one can stop us.Jump into our project. Launch Claude indangerous mode. And what do you say wehave Claude use Gemini for research?Yes, because we can run Gemini andClaude and all these terminal tools inheadless mode, meaning you don't jumpinto a TUI. You just run them with onecommand. It's like Gemini-P and thenhere's your prompt. Find pizza. We canjust create an agent that