like works every time.Execution scripts are not AI for themost part. They don't hallucinate. Theydon't make things up. They basicallyeither work correctly or they throw aclear error. So there's no ambiguity.There's a programming term here calledunit testing, which basically means likeyou can like isolate this down to itsbarebones function, just its input andits output, and you can just test that.You can version control them. So you canhave like a log of updates and you canoptimize them independently. You couldstart with like um some sort of serialflow where it goes one and then it doestwo and then it does three and thenafter a few runs maybe it'll come upwith a more efficient way to do things.For instance, maybe it'll split it andit'll parallelize one, two, and threeand then recombine the inputs orsomething for some API call. Uh theoptions here are virtually limitless. Umbut because they don't guess orhallucinate, you can just incrementallyimprove these things over time. I hadthis question come up the other day, soI figured I'd answer it in this course.Um, nothing says you can't actually useAI inside of your scripts. For instance,you might have a thing called processleads with,you know, claude. py that, uh, I don'tknow, it feeds in a bunch of leads orgrabs the leads from like a Google docor something or Google sheet and then itjust like passes them all through Claudeand has you tell something about eachlead. I don't know, whatever the heckyou want this to say. Well, you canstill use AI to do that for you, right?It's still passing it into Claude. It'sjust doing so in a much more predictableway because you are defining it within asingle workflow as opposed to just likegiving it full orchestrator access. Likefor instance, your process leaves withClaude would probably start by likereading the sheet, right? That'sprobably what's going to happen underthe hood. After you read the sheet,it'll then um send each row to Claude.Uh when you do that, you'll have like aspecific prompt that is like deter, it'snot deterministic, but it's asdeterministic as possible. You know, youset the temperature really low. It likeexpects the same outputs for the sameinputs and so on and so forth. Afteryou're done with that, maybe you likeadd updateto sheet or something. Um so you cancall, you know, open AI anthropic Googleat your whims. I do it all the timewithin my flows and actually is a prettybig chunk of how I do things. I alsocall like neural networks and stuff likethat. I use various libraries. Uh youdon't have to just you know do it allwith old school Python automation. Iguess the point that I'm trying to makeis just make these execution scriptsvery atomic. Make them do one thing andjust make them as deterministic aspossible. Um this will significantlyimprove the quality of your end result.So why does this do model work? It worksbecause it plays to everybody'sstrengths. When you do not constrain theoutputs of LLMs, they're reallyunpredictable, right? They'll tryanything and when they fail, they failspectacularly. And it might be like theywork 80% of the time, but the 20% of thetime they don't. They will like blow upa building or something. Uh, pre-builttools replace the construction of toolson the fly. Because the LLM is runningpre-built tools, it doesn't have to makethem from scratch every time, whichreduces the total number of steps thatyou have to take to get there. A reallysimple analogy for this is imagine ifyou just gave somebody a recipe versusasking them to invent a new dish everytime. Like if I just said, hey, can youmake that paella recipe that you've beenmaking me recently? The likelihood thatI'm going to get the PA recipe I want isprobably a lot higher than if I justhave it, you know, go off the cuff everysingle time. it will know the flavoring,the ratio of ingredients I like, thevarious steps that it takes, how to putthe muscles in, I don't know, just tonsof stuff. Whereas, you know, every timeit invents this new dish, this new pa of3.0, obviously, it's just like going offof its own biases and randomness at thatparticular moment. So, in addition todirectives and executions, we also havetwo essential configuration files. Andit's actually in practice a little morethan two, but I just call it two becauseit's a system prompt and then it's anenv. um agents.mmd contain theinstructions injected at the start ofevery conversation with theorchestrator. Now these are namedaccording to your um ID environment. Sothis could be cloudMD, gemini.mmd or itcould be whatever the heck it it asksfor cursor.mmd whatnot. Um I would justalways have like all of thesesimultaneously. The reason why isbecause if you just have all of themsimultaneously you can just like moveinto any new IDE or any new agent or anynew model and it'll just likeimmediately uh understand what you'resaying. So in this way you couldtheoretically have like you know ratelimits for your Gemini model um and thenrate limits for your claude model andthen rate limits for your open AI modeland you just open all three of them intabs and just have them all work onthings to minimize the probability ofyou running over anything. Most modelsat this point are pretty similar. We'vekind of converged to really reallysimilar accuracy ratings and scores onstuff. So aside from preference andstuff, this is how you keep those costslow. In addition, your env file is whereyou store all your API keys and thenyour credentials. Um, what this ends uplooking like for instance is just usingthat claude example earlier, uh, if wewant AI to do something, we wouldactually have claude or rather anthropicAPI_keyand then you just have like the the keyitself right over here. Then over hereyou'd have like open AIAPI_key.Then you'd actually store that key overhere as well. And you just like dumpthis. It would be a massive list of justall of like the credentials and keysthat you'd ever want. your executionscripts instead of having to hardcodethe key would just say, "Hey, go intoENV and then find it instead." Andthere's just like very simple programsthat do that sort of thing for you. Justso we're all on the same page, whatagents MD actually does is it acts asyour persistent context. You inject thisautomatically every single time at thebeginning of a session, so you justdon't ever have to repeat yourself. Italso explains the do framework structureto the orchestrator. So everything thatI've done here, we are basically goingto turn into an agents.mmd file and thenjust give to the orchestrator so itunderstands what is going on. we'regoing to give it to our agent and belike, "Hey, make sure to do it this waybecause it's reliable and becauseexecution scripts are prettydeterministic and so on and so forth."So, it's really meta, right? Likeeverything I'm telling you right now,we're just going to tell to the agent.We're just going to do it in a very likecontext compressed way. This will alsodefine the error handling behavior. Theagent does not spiral when somethingbreaks. And then obviously, what'sreally cool is you can actually justmake your agents.mmd better and betterand better. Like I find uh routine edgecases that I didn't handle for with myagents MD probably like once a week andthen I just like add a line to it andthen the next time like my model justdoesn't make that mistake. I did notalways self anneal for instance I justrealized that huh there's somesituations where my model solves theproblem itself and then other situationswhere it comes to me for help why don'tI just make it explicit hey man I wantyou to solve the problem for yourselfthat is what resulted in the selfannealing concept all right so let'sactually go and have AI set up directiveorchestration execution for us I'll showyou guys the system promptsagents.mmdenvand everything okay so let's actuallybuild our very first real agenticworkflow together the first thing youneed to do is open up your IDEIn my case, I'll be using Visual StudioCode for this demo. Not because I thinkit's better than anti-gravity oranything like that, but just because Iwant to show you guys you could usewhatever the heck you want. You know,it's all interoperable these days.Anyway, the very first thing we need todo is we need to create a new workspace.So, I'm going to head over here to thetop lefthand corner and then I'm goingto sayopen folder. From here, I'm going to atleast on a Mac, click the new folderbutton. Then I'm going to say YouTubeworkspace. do then going to create. OnceI'm in it, I'll click open.Next up, what we have to do is we haveto create our system prompt file. I geta lot more into detail about theselater, but for now, what I'll do is I'llopen up this file. I'm going to typeclaude.md.I'm going to paste in one of theexamples that you can get in the toplink in the description. So, that isthis my system prompt. Then going tosave. The next thing I'm going to do,I'm assuming you've already downloadedClaude Code. If not, you head over hereto extensions, type, you know, in thiscase, Claude Code, but realistically,whatever model you want. Give thatbutton a click, click install over here.You're going to need to sign in and allthat stuff. But assuming you have yourown key, and assuming you have your ownum account set up on at least, you know,a $10 or $20 a month plan, you're good.I'm then going to go to the top righthand corner here, click this littleclaude code button, and now I'm justgoing to move back a bit and startasking it to help me. Now, what I wantto do is I want to build a simple emailonboarding flow. Essentially, whensomebody joins my organization as aclient, I want to send them a briefemail saying, "Hey, thanks so much forjoining. Really looking forward tohaving you." And you know, here's a linkto a kickoff call that you can schedule.This is a super easy and straightforwardthing to do. And you can of course setup systems to do this outside of Agenticworkflows. I'm just showing you thisbecause I think it's probably the moststraightforward example to show you howto chain together three or four thingsthat I can think of. We'll progressivelydesign more and more complex workflows.But for now, what I need to do is I needto talk to this model. I need to have itdo things. But if you notice on thelefth hand side, I don't actually havelike the workspace itself set up. I justhave this claw.md. So the very firstthing I'm going to do is down here, I'mjust going to go bypass permissions.Whatever model you're using probably hasa bypass permissions mode nowadays. AndI'm I'm just going to say set up myworkspace in accordance with claw.md.I mean, I could have said whatever. Icould have said just set my workspace upor something like that. What it's goingto do is it's going to read throughcloud.mmd. It's going to understand howthis works and it's going to create afull directory structure based off that.now. Okay, it's adding a bunch ofinformation web hook.m MDs talking aboutthe deterministic and execution layersand so on and so forth. Now it's goingto go through and verify the finalsetup. And now it's giving me a briefsummary. Okay, great. Now that I havethis set up, I want to show you guys howeasy it is to actually build thisworkflow. All I'm going to do is I'mgoing to give it a very highle naturallanguage instruction of what I want.Hey, I'd like to build a briefonboarding workflow. Basically, I wantto be able to tell you onboard clientemail@acample.comand then have you send an email to thatnew client that introduces them to ourcompany, gives them some background, andthen invites them to a kickoff callusing a calendar link.Then going to press enter. You'll noticethat because I'm using my voice,sometimes this text is a little bitmisformatted. That's okay. Doesn't needto be perfect. This model is smartenough to understand what's going on.>> [snorts]>> It's going to ask me some questions.What should I use to send emails? SMTP,resend, send grid, whatever. What's thecompany info? What's the URL? Now, Ineed to obviously go and I need to getthis information, come back to it. But Ishould know that I don't even need tolike know for sure. Hopefully, it'sclear. I just want to like send throughmy own Gmail account. So, I'm just goingto say, sorry, I don't know what any ofthat means. I just want to send awelcome email from my Gmail account.And I'm going to provide it my own.com.For company info, I'll just give you abrief list of bullet points whenever yousend the email.And underneath for the calendar link,just use an example calendar link fornow.Cool. I'm giving it some highleinstructions here, and it's going tohelp and walk both of us through thefinishing of this workflow.The first thing it will do is if we openup our directives folder, it'll buildthis onboard_client.mmd.If I go up here, you can see there's nowan onboardclient.mdwith a bunch of highle directives withthis information.Now, you'll see that it's installingdependencies and so on and so forth. Itdoesn't fully understand what to dohere, but that's okay. Okay, what it'sdoing next is it's walking us through aone-time setup with our Googleinformation. So, what I'm going to do isI'm just going to create a new appspecific password. Let's just call itYouTube example. And then going to goover here. I'm going to paste this in.This is now going to take the apppassword and actually use it to updatethe env file.Says the app password saved. We're allset. First, I'm going to ask it whatdoes the onboarding email look like.This looks pretty reasonable. I'm nowgoing to go through and then edit thistemplate so that we could send what Ithink is a higher quality template everytime. Okay, just spend a few momentshere putting together this onboardingemail. It says, "Hi, name. Thanks forchoosing to work with us. We're excitedto have you on board." Here's whathappens next. We hop on a quick kickoffcall to align on goals. You meet theteam and get synced with your projectmanager. From there, we'll map out aplan tailored to you and finally receivedaily updates when the project iscomplete. Book your kickoff call here.Very straightforward template. Ibasically just want this to send everysingle time. So, it's just going to goand update the directive and presumablythe execution to always reflect thisinformation. And then finally, I'm justgoing to say onboard nick atnickleclick.ai.And at the end of it, you could see wenow have a really well formatted andsimple onboarding email. This wholeworkflow only took me a few seconds toput together. Hopefully you guys see thepower for nontechnical people, evenpeople that don't understand what appkeys are or env tokens or anything likethat to actually meaningfully integratewith software that we're using. Allright, so now that we've seen a littlebit about how to set things up, how doyou actually go and create like reallygood directives? Well, you need fourthings. You need a clear objectivestatement, aka what this directive does.You need some form of inputspecification, so what data does theagent need to actually get started? Youneed a step-by-step process, which is asequence of operations, scripts, andexpected outputs in natural language.And then you also need a definition ofdone. So that's quality criteria. How doyou know that the agent has actuallysucceeded? It needs to be able to gradeitself based on its output. Forinstance, like you'll know you'resuccessful when you have a Google Sheetlink URL with at least 100 rows filledin, something like that. You shouldalso, of course, include edge cases. Soany known exceptions, if there arequirks with an API, if there are thingsthat come out as error codes that shouldnot come out as error codes, if theyhave common failure modes, you shouldactually include all of that in thedirective. Uh you should also describefallback behavior like, hey, if theApollo scraper we're using fails, trythe instantly lead uh enrichment toolinstead. And unlike old automations, youdon't have to like build this massivecomplicated error handling function.Unlike naden or make.com or any of thesevisual coding tools, you don't actuallyhave to go through and like create theseerror handling flows. You you just addone line and you're like, "Hey, if thishappens, then do this." And it's so muchsimpler. It also includes some sort ofinstructions saying what to return ifeverything fails gracefully. Like a lotof um systems do fail really gracefully.They don't even really tell you thatthey fail. If you expect a 100 leads topop up or 100 YouTube videos to comefrom your YouTube video scraper orwhatever, you know, like one will uhit'll technically have done socorrectly, but you know, nothing willhave errored out. So there's no realbuilt-in way for the model to knowunless you make it hyper explicit whathappens if things go to plan. That's whyyou need a definition of done. And thenyou also need something to say like,hey, if this does fail gracefully, ifwe're under 100 records, let's say ifthat's our minimum, um, rerun it overand over and over again with widerfilters until we get to 100. don'treturn this to the user until we have atleast whatever he put in. All right, formy next system, I basically want tobuild a CRM manager for ClickUp. ClickUpis one of many CRM tools that you coulduse. I really like it because I thinkit's simple, it's fast, and then itincludes a bunch of functionality thatweaves together different tools like ithas built-in messaging. Um, it obviouslyhas documents. I could store myknowledge bases in here and so on and soforth. But I want you to know thespecific tool doesn't really matter atall. You can build this sort of thingout in basically any CRM so long as ithas the ability to connect via API andMCP and that sort of stuff. So basicallywhat I have here is I have a reallysimple CRM setup called templatecreative agency. I'm going to pretendI'm a creative agency here. You can seethere's a sales pipeline. Inside of thesales pipeline, I have people like NickSarif and Peter Jackson and Peter Smith,Peter Jackson, Sally Lozen, her lastname's Lozen, Koth Arllan, and so on andso forth. Basically stored um on thiscool little table. And what happens likeany CRM is people come in through thisintake stage likeBast Sarif and then um essentially theyare assigned a status. Then as they areupdated, I move them to things likemeeting booked and then proposal sentand close lost or closed one. Uhdepending on whether or not they acceptthe contract. However, I don't reallywant to interact with it manuallyanymore. I think