By making thingscloud accessible you are introducing alittle bit of risk. You're basicallysetting up a server on the internetright like anybody can theoreticallyaccess it if they know your credentials,password, whatever. So your agent willprompt you naturally. It'll say hey thisscript needs your Apollo API key. ShouldI use what's in your env? All you do isyou just say yes. You just say no. Yousay hold on, use this one instead or orwhatever. The way that modal worksreally is they will store thesecredentials as an encrypted secret whichis separate from your code and then thecredentials only actually run whensomebody calls the the web hook. So it'snever actually like in the codebase orwhatever. It's kind of similar to how weseparate our code from thev file in umyou know our IDE. Very very common. It'snot specific to Asian workflows, butyeah, it's the same way thatprofessional engineering teams do thissort of thing. And then what happens toyour IDE is it basically just becomesyour command center. I mean I obviouslydo both um cloud workflows and then Ialso do local workflows. And I actuallyjust like have all of them operate frommy IDE. Like I will say hey run thisworkflow and it'll be like okay this isa cloud workflow so I'm going to callthis web hook URL. Then it'll actuallycreate its own request and then send itto my own server which is kind of cool.Um although keep in mind that when youdo that as I mentioned earlier you willremove the agentic kind of part theself- annealing and so on and so forth.What's really cool though is your IDEhelps you get this done too. And thenwhat you end up with is you actually endup with specific agentic workflows madeto automate the process of uploadingthings to modal which is pretty sweet.What are my recommendations around whento actually turn something into a cloudworkflow? Um just scheduled workflows.If you guys have stuff that is like adaily report or a weekly summary or somesort of like recurring scrape or HTTPrequest, like you can do that in modal,no problem. If it's event triggered, akaum it's very timely, you need to dosomething within a few moments of someother requests coming in, then set upthe web hook functionality like I talkedabout and then boom. But if it doesn'tfit one of these two categories, believeit or not, probably is best to staylocal. If it does not need to run whenyou're not around, it's probably betterto like run it while you are aroundbecause as I mentioned, these agenticworkflow things, they uh they multiplyyour leverage like crazy right now,right? But they also multiply the errorbounds. So you should probably be aroundto see in case it does something youdon't want it to do. Now, if you're justhanging around by your computer for 3 or4 hours a day or whatever, keep in mindyou are now doing like 3 or 4 hours aday of work, keep in mind that like youare now capable of doing 30 to 40 hoursof work in the 3 or 4 hours with aenticworkflows. Um, so it's not like you'rereally losing too much here. You'remultiplying your leverage as alltechnology is done. But there are ofcourse some instances and automationswhere you just always want to run thething automatically and and that'sthat's what this is for.Last thing I really need to mentionabout this is logging and monitoring.Now, if something happens in your IDE,it's typically pretty easy to see whereit went wrong. Why? Because you havelittle reasoning windows that you canpop open, right? It's very easy for youto like see and poke around and be like,"Okay, I could see that there was aproblem here with this HTTP request andso on and so forth." But right out ofthe box, um, in the cloud, you don'thave access to that and most of thislogging functionality is not around. So,cloud deployments don't have that. Whatthat means is your agent action needs toexplicitly force the logging in thecode. It won't always be able to do thisand um when it can't do this, the debugprocess can take quite a while. Thatsaid, okay, if you learn how to build insome form of observability, that's whatthis is called in programming. I'm infrom the start, it becomes a lot morestraightforward. My own personalmonitoring setup is I actually have adedicated Slack channel calledAgentic-Cloud-LOGfor all cloud workflow updates. So everytime a workflow runs, it'll actuallyautomatically send an update to my ownSlack channel letting me know if it wassuccessful or not. I have like a prettysuperficial highle version ofinterpretability now and observability.If something happens, I know that itworked. If something doesn't happen, Iknow that it didn't work. Uh it's not aslike super in-depth as it could be, butit's simple enough that I could justlook at that and then go to my agent andthen say, "Hey, you know, I noticed thisthing isn't working. Can you doublecheck to see what's going on?" And thenit can do its loop on its own. I don'tneed to be around. And then, you know, Ican continue working on something elsewhile it does that. But if I didn't havethis, if I didn't know, then obviouslythat would be a problem. I've seen someways that people have built automatedsystems where they will um automaticallytake an error notification and send itback to another cloud, a claude orGemini or, you know, GPT 5.2 instance orsomething like that and basically say,hey, there was some error with thisthing. Fix it. And it'll just like do itcompletely autonomously. I think thatstuff can be kind of cool. Although,keep in mind like most people aren'tbuilding like 3,000 web hooks a day,right? So that's usually not the actualbottleneck. the bottleneck is more like,you know, why are you building thiswebbook in the first place? So, I don'treally want to like mislead people hereand have them build these cool automaticself-fixing loops when it doesn't reallymatter all that much in the first place.Not to mention like the probability ofit actually entirely fixing itselfwithout introducing more errors ispretty low. And you know, I hopefullyyou guys understand what I'm trying tosay. Okay, so pretty easy to do that.You just say, "Hey, when you deploy tomodal, make sure to add logging thatsends me a Slack message every time itruns. Here's my Slack web hook URL." Ifyou don't have that, you can ask it,hey, get me a Slack web hook URL. Ifyou're using Discord or something, youdo the same thing there. If you, I don'tknow, want a text message or an emailaddress, you can obviously set that upon your end as well. Prettystraightforward. I also say stuff like,"Hey, could you give me a status checkon all my modal deployments? How arethey going?" It'll go through all of themodal deployments, run through theirlogs. Um, it has access to its API. As Imentioned, the docs are prettystraightforward. And so, you end up justgetting everything that you need from aa check-in like this. So, you can do itmanually, you can do it based off oflike some Slack notification, you can doit based off the email notice that youget. There are a lot of um ways to errorhandle this. The reality is you justneed to like know to do this. If youdon't do this, you're going to have abad time. In the future, we will havecloudnative agents, right? Instead ofleaving the orchestrator out of this,we're going to actually be inserting theorchestrator in. And so, we're going tominimize that agent accuracy as modelsget more intelligent and people designbetter frameworks to deal with us. It'dbe pretty cool, right? If you thinkabout it, what you could do is you couldjust send a natural language query to,let's say, nyx-agent.com.This is my agent, with a question mark,which is a query parameter that says,"Run the lead scraper." It would then gothrough the agent PTM MRO loop. It woulddo planning. It would do tool use. Itwould check its memory. It would do somereasoning and reflection before finallydoing the orchestration. But as Imentioned, now we're just at the pointwhere the error bars are a little toohigh. It will be pretty cool thoughbecause once you're done with that,you'll be able to set up a wholeecosystem of just cloud agents that talkto each other and hang out. So, youknow, you'll have one agent here, Nick'sagent, then you'll have Peter's agent,and then Sam's agent. Then Peter's agentwill say something Nick's agent, whichwill query Sam's agent for moreinformation. and they'll decide onsomething together and then I don'tknow, you could even introduce paymentsinto this sort of structure and more.So, early versions of this do existtoday. I published some videos exploringsome of them. Just check out my channel.They're just a little too high riskright now and it just doesn't reallymake too much sense to do that allyourself. Okay, so I'm going to walk youthrough actual modal web hookdeployment. Now, I have a bunch ofprompt templates and stuff like that.You can obviously get all of that stuffin the link at the very top of ourdescription. Um, let's actually gothrough setting up uh web hooks inmodal. All right, now let's talk abouthow to take your directives that areinside of your IDE and then put them onthe cloud, specifically on a servicecalled modal.com. Now, in case you guyswere unaware, modal is basically what'scalled serverless infrastructure, whichis where they have these virtual serversthat they spin up on demand on the flyevery time that you want them to dosomething. What's really cool is mostthe time these serverlessinfrastructures sort of bend into one oftwo camps. One is they're like onlineall the time and then they're alwayscharging you some usage per minute,second, week, month, whatever. Thesecond is they're offline, but then theyhave to start. This is termed a coldstart. And cold starts typically justtake a lot of time and energy. So thatif you have a flow that requires likeinstant reaction like a lot of the uhyou know executions that yourealistically want to host in the cloudum you know it takes a fair amount oftime and you don't actually get itinstantly. You get it after like aminute or two. So, what's really cool ismodal solves both both of theseproblems. And what you can do is you canjust take the execution scripts that youdeveloped and then put them on modal solong as you have the right system promptuh and have it work essentiallyinstantaneously. So, what you do is youcreate an account on this service and Ishould note that I'm not affiliated withthem. Do whatever you want. There arevariety of other ways to do this, butthis is definitely the simplest one.They give you a bunch of free credits,at least as of the time of thisrecording. And it's worth me noting thatI've used Modal now for like at leasttwo weeks, maybe three, and I've used 4cents out of the $5 available. Likerealistically, you're not going to runout of this credit usage. Um, just as atest. I can't imagine how much $30 infree credits would take you. If you'rejust using like a Gentic Workflow foryourself or for like a small to-sizebusiness, this will take you really far.So, it's I mean, not free, but it'svirtually costless. Once you're done,because we added all the informationinto our um cloud MD and our agents MDand and so on and so forth. If we wantto push one of our flows to Modal, it'sactually really easy. All we need to dois just get some authentication goingand then obviously find the specificflow that we want. So I want to do thecreate proposal. I'm going to speak tomy agent. Hey, I'd like to create amodal web hook for create_proposal MD. Ibasically just want to be able toreplicate the functionality of that andjust do it on the cloud instead.Get me a web hookURL for this.So now it's going to go through read mypre-existing system prompt which willinclude a bunch of information all aboutthis. All right, this is almost doneworking through the modal web hook. Aspart of the system prompt, we set upwhat's called a web hooks.json. This isjust a giant list of all of thedifferent web hooks we have. I shouldnote that before it was empty, so all wedid is we just populated it. Now gettingsome information about the web hook thatwe set up and it looks like it wasdeployed successfully. So, we actuallyhave a web hook now available at thisURL here, nick- 90891-cloud-orchestrator-directive and so on and so forth. Itlooks like this takes all of ourinformation in as follows. So, I meanlike we could hardcode all of these. Wecould also have AI generate them. So,what I'm going to do is I'm actuallyjust going to have it run. Okay, great.Could you run a brief example thenreturn the URL when it's done? Okay. Andit looks like at the end of it, we gotour proposal which is right over here.Let's take a look and see how it did.Demo Corp AI automation pilot has somebrief problem areas, has some briefsolution areas. You guys remember we umbuilt this earlier on in the course. Anduh yeah, we now have essentially anautomated proposal generator. Obviously,I wouldn't just like send an HTTPrequest to this with this information.This is a little bit short. I'm notgoing to call something demo corp, noram I going to call uh manual data entrytaking 20 hours per week. I'm going togo in a lot more detail. So just for thepurposes of this, I'll say great, pleaseupdate the documentation. Every time Icall this, I want to make sure that thedemo that I'm providing is reallycomplete. So lengthen the paragraphs forthe benefits and the solutionstatements. Make things longer ingeneral and significantly morerealistic. Then rerun the test.And opening up the new proposal. Let'ssee what this one looks like. Cool. Imean, we did write uh I guess it took mydescription of long to mean that weshould write the title long, too. Butthese look significantly better. Checkthis out. We now have way morecustomized information here. Yeah, thisis uh much much better. Awesome. So,that's great. So, what did we learntoday? We learned that it is actuallyreally easy to set up a web hook. All wereally need to do is we just take ourflow which um you know in our case wasthe creation of a proposal and then sendit to our agent alongside um some systemprompts that describe how to uploadagentic workflows to the cloud.Obviously we need to add ourdocumentation and so on and so forth.Really cool thing about modal is it'sjust one click takes like two seconds.You just go get your modal API key andthen post it in here. It'll ask you todo so. In terms of how to create thetoken, you just click on that new token.The token secret is on the right. Sothat's what you copy and then you justpaste it directly in here uh when itasks you for the modal token and boom,you're done. And yeah, that's how to doit with web hooks. Okay, now that we'veset that up, let's actually go throughsetting up scheduled um triggers inmodal as well. This is different fromweb hooks obviously because now wewanted to do so on a schedule, not justlike based off of some event that comesin. So last time we did this with webhooks. Let me show you instead how to doit with some sort of schedule trigger.Maybe instead of running this via webhook call, what I want to do is I wantto run a really simple workflow,probably some lead scraper or somethinglike that, uh, every 5 minutes. So, whatI'm going to do is I'm just going totell it which thing I want to run andthen how often I want to run it. Andthen everything baked into the systemprompt is super easy and it'll just tellModal to run this using what's calledcron. Hey, could you send a welcomeemail to nickleclick.aievery 5 minutes and I want you to set upa modal cloud scheduled trigger to dothis for me automatically.Cool. So now it's setting up the modalscheduled function to send the welcomeemail every 5 minutes. First it's goingto check the existing schedule functionpattern. Realizes that there is noschedule function pattern. So now it'sjust going to add some scheduled welcomeemails. Cool. And now we have it.Scheduled welcome email is live.Schedule every 5 minutes. So that's whatthat looks like in cron. What we'regoing to do now is we're going to send.What's really cool is when you add them,you can actually see the the variousschedule triggers. So, there's one herewith a little clock icon that says every5 minutes UTC. If I click on this,you'll see that there are no scheduledcalls um that have gone out yet, butthere is one in 1 minute and 9 seconds.And modal's cool because it actuallyallows you to run in between a schedule.So, you can just click on that littlerun now button, and when you click therun now button, it'll actually do thething. You can see here that it took 3seconds to start up the server and 1.47seconds to actually send. Finally, if Igo to the email address that Ispecified, you can see that it'sactually sent the email. I mean, in thiscase, I just used a basic kind ofonboarding email template, or rather, itcreated an basic onboarding emailtemplate. If I wanted to update this, Ijust tell my agent, hey, you know,change this so that it's like a welcomeemail from whatever to whatever. I couldeven give it a template. I could givewhatever I wanted to.And just so that you guys could see itactually run, I'm just going to waituntil this counter goes down to zero soyou guys see what occurs when you set upa schedule. It's pretty straightforward.I mean, at the end of the day, sincewe're no longer using directives in ourcloud um, you know, servers, all we'rereally doing here is we're just runninga Python script, right? Because it's aPython script, these things executenearly instantly. And that's really,really helpful rather than, you know,have to wonder about whether or not thisthing is sent, rather than have to waita really long startup time or send andreceive things to or from Anthropic, weexecute pretty quick. And as you see,because we just finished the previousquery, I think within like 3 or 4minutes or something like that, wedidn't even have to wind down theserver. So, this one took 0 millisecondsand this execution time um was under 1second. So, I mean, we just did thiswhole thing in like less than a secondflat, which is really cool. Heading backover here, you see that