Andit's important that it does it rightbecause if it screws up at the planningstages, probability of it being able tomove and do the rest of the task is verylow because it's making a foundationalmisassion. Now, an agent will identifydependencies within steps. It'll thensequence them logically, like I justgave you, five steps. Well, the agentwill actually reverse those steps asnecessary. And then good planning alsomeans revising the plan when thingschange because there's obviously only somuch information that we have ahead oftime. There are limitations to this andClaude, GPT, Gemini, these have prettyimperfect planning capabilities. So, aspart of the building of the workflowsthat I'm going to show you later, Iactually recommend doing a fair amountof the planning yourself. The reason whyis because it's sort of um like ananalogy where if I'm on I don't knowlet's say the east coast of the UnitedStates and I want to go somewhere on thewest coast of Africa or something likethat. Okay, and I'm this ship over hereand my goal is I want to make it to thisport right over here. If I screw up atthe very beginning, okay, even by a fewpercentage points, let's say, okay, andI give myself a range of possibleoutcomes here, this range, even if it'slike a 1% problem with the planning or1% error or something like that, theseranges have massive downstream impactsover the course of the entirety of thetask. Like, if I'm really really bad, Icould end up in the middle of freakingnowhere. Or if I'm really, really,really bad on this end, I could end up,you know, hundreds of kilometers, maybethousands of kilometers away from whereI wanted to go. So what planning reallyis if you think about it is effectiveplanning just reduces those error bars.It just allows us to go a lot tighterand a lot narrower. So the probabilityof us actually achieving uh the thing wewant aka going to where we want to go isa lot higher. If there was one place foryou to exert your human intellect, it'sat the planning stage. And I'll coversome practical ways to do that later. Umobviously there's DO which helps byproviding structured directives. I'mgoing to show you guys how you can justdump your company SOPs into a model toguide its planning. If you guys don'thave company SOPs, I'm going to show youhow to reproduce them really simply andeasily. Next are tools. Now, these turnLLMs into systems that are capable ofreal world action. Um, I think I coveredthe caveman analogy, ancient peoplebuilding a spear or something like that,but you can also think of it as like anancient person building a house. It'slike they will build the house the firsttime and the house will be pretty cool,you know, might um have most the thingsthat they want. I don't know, some sortof um straw roof or whatever. And thenwhat's really cool is agents can then goback to the tools and then make thembetter. So maybe, you know, you want tobuild a window or something like that.So the first iteration of the housedoesn't have a window. Second one has awindow. The third one has like a door.The fourth one has like a cool barbedwire security system and so on and soforth. But just to break it down, tooluse is where agents interact withsystems and services. In our case,because we are dealing mostly withdigital services, that means things likecalling APIs. Okay, that's a big chunkof tool use to be honest. Then executingcode. You don't need to know any of thecode. It does the coding for you, but itis still executing the code. It alsonowadays includes a lot of databasestuff because you don't want to storeall the information directly in the uhcontext of the model. Then it also meansthings like browsing the web. So if yourcomputer was the entire world, right, inyour case, the tool that you personallyuse to interact with your computer, ifyou think about it, is use your mouseand use the keyboard. And some peopleare now using voice transcription toolslike myself. So that is our input methodto our world of the computer, right?Well, it's the same thing with agents.Tools are their input methods to reallife. They need tools in order to breakout of that little chatbot, okay, andactually influence things that matter.So the entirety of the intelligence ofmodels in the do directive orchestrationexecution framework in cloud skills in abunch of these different ways ofthinking about agentic workflows, theentire point of the intelligence is justto help it use and then build tools. Anda good analogy is tools are like theagents hands. The LLM is the brain. Ifyou're a brain and you're in a vat or ina jar somewhere, obviously your abilityto influence the real world is prettylimited, right? But you give a brainsome wires and neurons and some hands orwhatever and now it can actually startdoing things. Unfortunately, right nowtool quality varies a ton. There is alot of variance in like really good andreally crappy tools. And just a fewmonths ago is actually way larger.There's way more variance, but we'regetting better. And I imagine futuretool systems are going to be mostlypretty solid. There's going to be a lotless uh uh range between like a reallygood tool and a really bad tool.Essentially, um, this is for a varietyof reasons. MCP came out prettyrecently, and there are also a lot ofpeople trying to capitalize short-termon MCP, so they're building a lot ofreally crappy tools. I'll show you guyshow to avoid that, and also how toselect like really high quality toolsthat matter, as well as how to buildyour own that are way better. The way Isee bad tools is it's like if you givesomebody a really crappy hammer and thenyou expect them to build you like areally nice uh cupboard or cabinet orsomething, probability is low, right? Ifyou want to build something really cool,you need to have cool tools. If you wantto do something really cool, youobviously need to make sure those toolsare as high quality as humanly possible.So, here's one of the key insights ofAgentic Workflows and one of the reasonswhy I think a lot of people don'tunderstand how the stuff works. When youstandardize tools, okay, and you turnthem from vague ideas into actualconcrete functions. You let anybody usethem, regardless of the type of modelthat you're using, whether it's Claudeor whether it's chat GBT or whether it'sGemini. All of these models are smartenough to know how to use the tool. Youalso ensure consistent inputs andoutputs, which is really, reallyimportant for business. And the coolthing is you don't actually need to waitfor other people to build them anymore.All of these models are hyper optimizedfor programming. So, we're just going tolet the model build its own tools. LLMsare very probabilistic, right? Theirdecision-m process is pretty opaque tous. I heard a great quote the other day,uh, might have been from Dario Amod,might have been from somebody else, butit was that AI models are grown. They'renot built. And I think about that prettyoften. AI models are just intelligencesthat we are slowly figuring out how uhthey work under the hood. We don'tactually know. We don't have an anestablished consistent decision-makingprocess that takes us from one towherever we want to go. Businessrequires that you need interpretability.You need the ability to audit things andso on and so forth. Okay? So rather thanhave this big probabilistic galaxy brainwhich makes decisions in routes in waysthat we have no idea how, okay, we justgive it very very simple tools. And inthat way, even if there's somedeviation, maybe it gets all kind of uhloopy over here, we know that it calleda tool. And because it called a tool, wecan obviously interpret that um a lot alot easier, right? We have a sequence ofsteps like 1 2 3 4 5 6. We go throughthe process. It's just way morestraightforward. So, we just let anagent, which is optimized for coding,make its own tools. Then the agent willcall the tools and then interact withlife for us. I want to show you guys howeasy it is to build your own tools. Sohere I have a simple query. Hey, howwould you build a workflow that takes avideo, cuts out the silences in saidvideo, and stitches it all back togetherto deliver me the results. The cutshould look natural like most YouTubejunk cuts. Basically just try and stitchthe empty space together. You know, thisis a pretty complicated flow if youthink about it. There are a lot ofdifferent ways you could build somethinglike this and none of them are basicallyeasy. So, what this is going to do isit's going to look for a couple ofsimple and easy ways to do this and thenpresent them to me because I went downhere and I selected plan mode, which isone of the different modes that you canuse in um at least the Claude series ofmodels. Keep in mind depending on themodels that you're using may be a littlebit different. So now once I have thisplan in front of me, I'm then going tobe able to decide on how to do theworkflow and then I could act as more orless a highle director letting thisthing know whether or not I want to dosomething. Okay, next up it's asking meare we doing this on short clips, longclips, any preference on the defaultsand so on and so forth. I say shortclips defaults sound fine. MP4 is great.Okay, I then have the plan in front ofme and if I wanted to build this, all Iwould need to do is click yes and autoaccept. And I think I will. That seemspretty straightforward. So, let's giveit a try. While this is working, I'mjust going to see if I could find anexample of a video that I could feedinto this. Um, I've done this a coupleof times previously as you guys couldsee. So, let me just find some reallysimple video that's only a few secondsthat we can test this on. Okay. And Ifound an example here. It's just a shortone minute video clip of me doing atypical intro.Now that this thing is building, I'mjust going to move this to bypasspermissions mode. That'll just allow itto operate autonomously without me. Andonce it's there, it's actually createdit. That's great. As you guys can see,that only took us maybe like 30 secondsor so. From here, I actually want totest this. Let's test usingtest_clipip.mpp4.Now, I'm not actually expecting this towork the first time around because mostworkflows don't actually work the firsttime around. It's all a process ofprogressive iteration. Essentially, ifthe workflow doesn't work, the errormessage is fed back into the agent andthen the agent will progressively buildthe agentic workflow using the u theerror messages to sort of guide it inthe right direction.In situations like this, I honestly justalt tab and then do something else.Okay. And it actually looks like it didrun through the entire test manually andwas perfectly fine. That's crazy. WhatI'm going to do now is I'm just going towatch the test, see how it is, and thenwe'll just continue to go back and fortha few times until I have what I want.Oh, by the way, I don't even need tofind this file. I could actually justsay open it. Okay, so I'm noticing thatthe cuts are kind of abrupt. They're alittle bit too fast for me. Um, what Imean by that is like instead of cuttingat the point that I wanted it to cut,it's just cutting like a few secondsbefore. Multiple different ways aroundthis. I could use a different approachto detect the cut points. I could haveit manually move things over. I mean, ifyou think about it, like I could dowhatever the heck I want here. Uh, thisthing's operating at the speed ofthought. So, I'm just going to give itsome very high level instructions here,and we'll see what it thinks. It'sgiving me a bunch of different optionshere. One of them is voice activitydetection. I like this. Let's do thisone. Okay, it's now testing with thisnew approach.All right, let's take a look at roundtwo.Okay, so it worked perfectly on the umone minute clip. So now I'm just goingto run it on test three minutes.Okay, and it's just finished and thenopened the next clip. Let's just see howthat does. There is a cut point righthere, I think. Let's see if that's good.Cool. Nice. Looks like it did that cut.That's cool. How about another one? HI think it was right here.Nice. It's solid.Last one right here.Cool. So, yeah, this one workedbasically perfectly. Um the agenticworkflow is for the most part nowcomplete. So, you guys could see it tookone back and forth. I just in a veryhigh level um realistic way gave it alist of what I wanted. I didn't reallyknow what I wanted to be honest, justlike I think most people that haveprobably done any sort of like softwareengineering work know clients usuallyhave no clue how to scope a project. Soyou can sort of only take them at facevalue there. I went back and forth alittle bit. Um you know I was like okaythis didn't work too well. Is there anyother thing that we could do? It gave mesome other thing. So I tried the otherthing. Hopefully you guys could see thatthis sort of loop is verystraightforward and realistically onlytakes a few moments of your time. Themost important part I think of my entireday is now just providing some sort ofhighlevel nudge in one direction oranother to a agents like this whendesigning my agenda workflows. Um, youknow, like if you just remove me fromthe loop completely, the resulting agentworkflow is probably going to suck, atleast for now. But, uh, I'm just here tosteer the ship, right? It's almost likeas if I don't know, it's like an oldschool Viking boat where people have tolike manually row, right? So, I'm justthe person at the very front of the shipdoing a little bit of steering. Theagents are the minions doing my rowing.At this point, I'm briefly going tocover memory here. It's how agentsmaintain context. This isn't superimportant to know for building, but it'simportant to know if you want tounderstand how these things work underthe hood. So, short-term working memoryare basically reasoning tokens that arerelevant to the current task. They'restored temporarily. If you guys haveever seen like a little thinking windowor a thinking tab with like a littlething that you could click to openinside, it'll be like the user wants todo this. The user is thinking aboutdoing this. This is your uh short-termmemory sort of uh analog and like theway that our human brains work. Sort ofyour intermediate memory is your backand forth messages with the agent. Soit's like the actual like message chainthat you are having. Those aren'tremoved like reasoning tokens are. Andso this is just always stored and sentwith every API call. Long-term memoryare things that persist across sessions.So they're variables that are stored inclaude chat GBT etc. On the right handside here, I have that same message thatI sent earlier as part of our demo whereI scrape 200 HVAC owners. If I show youguys how all of this memory works incontext, basically this over here, okay,and then its replies are what are calledintermediate messages. Anything insideof this thinking tab is like yourshort-term, okay? And then long-term arelike things that are stored within myfile space. So they're things like, youknow, my agents MD. They're things likemy Gmail accounts.json. They're thingslike my token leftclick. If this allseems like magic to you right now, don'tworry. You're going to get to the pointyou can actually understand andinterpret everything within anintegrated development environment bythe end of the program. But I justwanted you guys to be on the same pagehere that this over here is like anintermediate piece of memory. It's goingto include all messages that are sentand received from you and the agent andthen everything in between the reasoningloops and stuff for short-term whereaslong-term tend to be files and thensystem prompts. Right now, one of theprimary failure modes in Agentic systemsright now is because of um context. Andcontext, for those people that don'tknow, is just all of like the theletters and words and tokens that arebeing stored in a model at any given onepoint in time. Uh the way that agentsmanage context limitations right now isthey are summarizing previous steps tosave on tokens by compressing the fullhistory into key takeaways. If you thinkabout it, like the way that I write andthe way that the model writes isn'tactually like super token efficient.What it does is it makes a bunch ofsummaries of these constantly. So if youknow this is my actual chat window ifyou think about it that's the messagethat the agent sent me and this is themessage that I sent the agent this isthe message that it sent me back andblah blah blah what it'll doperiodically just to save on the tokencost is it'll actually just summarize itin as high density a form as humanlypossible so we take maybe like a 500worduh uh context and then chunk that downinto like a a 100 or maybe a 50wordcontext. It'll do so periodicallywithout losing you the core details justby rewriting it in various ways that arejust a lot simpler. For instance, Icould say hello, how are you doing? Myname is Nick Sarif. Or I could say, hidash, how you do question mark, I'm NickSarif. And if you just like count up thetotal number of characters there, thelatter one is obviously going to be alot more efficient. They also don'tstore reasoning in the main loop. Itgenerated temporary and then itdisappears. It does store intermediateresults externally by offloading thedatabases, files, and other vectorstores. And then it'll now load therelevant context on demand to only pullin what is needed for the current step.Um, you know, you can build this inexplicitly using something called a ragor retrieve augmented generation system,which I'll talk about later, or you can,uh, you know, just let the model do itsown thing and it does a pretty good jobof it. When we make it to reflection,this is where the agent self-evaluates.So that's where it examines its outputsto detect errors and then assess whetheror not what it wanted to do actuallyworked. It identifies the approaches arefailing. it knows when to pivot and itjust selforrects. This is really likethe intelligence of the model to behonest. Um, if you don't have thisreflection loop, you will just have ascript like a