So it's not alinear relationship between that at all.And you know, some things I just don'tautomate. Like would I automate thecalling of my client or something? No, II wouldn't. At least not right now atcurrent levels of tech. Maybe if umagentbased calling becomes better andlike more socially acceptable later. Butfor now, no. What I would do is I wouldlike automate the process of coming upwith a bunch of information and contextabout the client. I would automate theprocess of doing research on the client.These are all things that scale prettylinearly as I was talking about, right?So, I'd have some big dossier ofinformation in front of me to save mefrom having to manually go through hoursand hours of LinkedIn research, but um Iwould actually just make sure that theactual calling part is me, right? Itjust doesn't make sense. It's toosensitive of a process. Research, on theother hand, a lot more linear. There'ssome situations that do require empathy,judgment, but you can convert situationsthat require empathy and judgment intosituations that you just likeautomatically say yes or no to. A goodexample of this is um Amazon. Amazon haslike basically automatic refunddispersement. If uh you have asked for Ithink less than like a 2% refund rate orsomething like that. So if there's anissue with your order and like for themost part you don't ask for refunds veryoften and you say, "Hey, there's someissue with this. Could you give me arefund?" Like they will automatically belike, "Yes, refund granted." And thenyou're like, "What the hell? I didn'teven tell anybody about like I didn'teven give a photo or anything. It'sfully automatic." It's like, "Yeah, seehow much time and energy they save bydoing that." So you can just reconstructum sensitive customer situations andlike quantify them and then you can liketotally automate them. But in situationswhere like you genuinely can't. Let'ssay this is somebody with sort of ashakier refund rate and stuff like yeah,you're going to need to find a way topass that off to somebody that hasempathy and judgement. So yeah, I mean Iwould not automate things just for thesake of automating them. I'd only everautomate something if like it actuallymade a bottom line difference to mybusiness. And things like lead scrapingfor instance, research, accumulation oflarge data sets and stuff like Like allthis stuff in videos make a largedifference to my bottom line. So I'mhappy to automate it. But the calls andwhatnot, it's all just me, baby. At theend of the day, your goal is supervisedautonomy. It is not babysitting. So Ijust talk to them like Slack messages. Ido not use formal syntax or precisetechnical language. I just DM mycolleagues and then just replace thecolleagues with my agent. You know, uh Iwas running a YouTube workflow just theother day to edit one of my videos and Isaid, "Hey, could you run the YouTubeeditor for the new file? Make the cuts alittle bit tighter." and it took theaverage cut distance and then it justlike decreased it a little bit and thenit just reran the YouTube editor andthen I said I liked it so then itupdated the flow so I would just usethat the next time. Same thing withvoice transcription in general. Justjust speak naturally and then send it.It'll understand you. Okay. So manuallytriggering these workflows is actuallyjust the beginning and that may befrustrating for you because there manyhours through the course but that goes alot deeper than this. Right now whatwe're doing is we're opening our IDE.We're talking to our agents and thenwe're starting the flows yourself, whichis fine if you have like ad hoc tasks,one-off requests. It's fine when youwork 8 hours a day and between, youknow, 9 to5 or whatever when you're atyour desk, you can you can get thingsdone. But as I'm sure you'd imagine, theautomatic part in the word automation,like the auto is pretty important,right? So, how do you actually havethese things run automatically withoutyour involvement? Well, these are calledevent- driven workflows. For instance,let's say a new lead fills out yourwebsite form. You want a workflow thatautomatically replies and books ameeting, right? But what if the new leadcomes in at 5:30 and and you leave forhome at 5? What if a customer sends asupport email? Your agent does thetriage, write the draft, and writes tothe right person for sending. I mean,that's great and all, but like what areyou going to do? Like wait until thenext day, um, look at your inbox andthen do the triage, then that defeatsthe purpose. So, how do we actuallybuild these things? There's alsoschedule driven workflows. Maybe it's9:00 a.m. on Monday and you want aweekly report to generate itself. So, doyou really want to come in every Mondayand then be like, "Hey, generate myweekly report." I mean, of course, youcan, but it's nice if some of thesethings are done automatically for you.Maybe the weekly report is summarizesyour work and then sends it to your bossor something or your client with yourtimetable, right? Same thing for theseother things. These are uh specificschedules. Well, that's what we're goingto learn about next. Web hooks andscheduling. Now that you know everythingthat you need to know about agenticworkflows in order to build them andthen use them, it's time to take thesethings which up until now have beenconstrained to your own device or yourintegrated development environments,then put them in the cloud where theycan be triggered through means otherthan you actually prompting. So in orderto do this successfully, which I'm goingto call cloudifying my workflows, wedon't actually upload the orchestratoritself. Remember in the loop where wehave the directives, the orchestrationlayer and then the executions. What wedon't upload is the orchestrator. All wereally do is upload the executionscripts themselves which are thedeterministic parts. You can also uploadthe directives too if you wanted toprovide context to a a model later on incase it wanted to edit or or whatever.So for the most part just upload theexecution scripts. I'm going to show youguys how to do that and somealternatives. The way that you can thinkof it is as creating many APIs that doone specific thing reliably. And thesame concepts apply whether you're usingDO or other frameworks like cloud skillsor whatever. Now you may be wonderingNick what is fundamentally differentabout this versus what we were doingbefore. Well, what's fundamentallydifferent about this versus what we'redoing before is there is no LLM.Instead, all we're really doing is we'rejust creating our own API and we'reusing LLMs to do it really reallyquickly and easily with some sort ofdefined input and output. The reason whyis because you need to rememberstochasticity or sort of randomness. Thetendency for models to eventuallydiverge from what it is that you wantedthem to do over time given enough timesteps. So because of this, LMS are veryprobabilistic and they sort of haverandomness in every direction. Whenthey're working in your IDE, for themost part, you're around, right? Whetheryou're not looking at it right thissecond, you'll probably look at it atsome point over the course of the nexthour. And because of that, if it has anissue, you're watching. You can coursecorrect. But if it's 3:00 a.m., okay,and this is running unattended with fullsystem permissions, this level ofvariability is a liability. And so we'retaking the AI just out of the cloud loopentirely.Additionally, instead of having slightlydifferent routing decisions like we seehere, we're just going to force theminto one routing decision every timeusing what's called server side logic.So because your execution scripts do thesame thing every time, you neveractually have to suffer this. Instead,it's always just, hey, we start byexecuting node one, then we move toexecuting node two, and then so on andso on and so forth to node n. And allwe're doing is we're taking thoseexecution scripts, deploying them asstandalone cloud functions. No LLM inthe loop, just an API on a schedule orresponding to web hooks. Theintelligence that we use during thisprocess is just used to build theexecution scripts, not to actually runthem. In this way, you can consider thislike basically deploying your own miniapp. A good way to think about this is,you know, like your agent is thearchitect and your cloud workflow is thebuilding. Architects design buildingsall the time, but it's very rare thatthey actually live in the buildings theydesign, right? So, what our agent isdoing in this point is just architectingour beautiful building and we're goingto put execution scripts to live inthere instead. This obviously loses afair amount. I mean, this takes ouragentic workflows and changes them backinto traditional workflows or proceduralworkflows. It means that they can'tadapt to unexpected situations on thefly. They also can't self-anneal or askclarifying questions when things getweird. You know, you are going back tothat old school traditional automationbehavior and it just does exactly whatyou told it to do. Nothing more, nothingless. But if you think about it, by thetime your workflows deploy, they shouldbe pretty battle tested as I wasmentioning earlier from having rundozens of times locally and you'veprobably already worked out all thekinks in your IDE locally where thedebugging is easy. So if somethingbreaks, you are still going to get errornotifications. And the really cool thingis you can just fix it with your agent.If you're using a modern platform likemodal, um models can read the errorsfrom modal really easily. So you canactually just say, "Hey, this workflow Ithink is broken, fix it." And I canactually just do the debugging processfor you. So you get all of like theability to debug and stuff like that.It's just you're not doing it on like alive loop because if you were doing iton a live loop, results, assuming thatit doesn't do what you wanted to do,could be catastrophic, go all over theplace. And I mean like I could sit hereand I could give you guys a way to dothis that includes the orchestratordirectly in the uh environment. I couldhave the agent actually like listeningand constantly modifying things. ButI've tried this now in a in a few actualbusinesses. And despite the fact thatit's very shiny and it's very sexy andpeople like, "Wow, I can just query myLLM um you know on some cloud containersomewhere and have it do whatever I wantvia web hook." Despite the fact that itseems really cool, we're just not thereyet. I'm pretty sure we'll be there somepoint in the next couple of years, butfor now we're just going to leave theorchestrator out of it completely andbasically just use our agentic workflowbuilding skills to build APIs reallyquickly that we can then call. So theplatform that I use for all this iscalled modal. Modal is not the onlyplatform out there. There are manyothers like trigger.dev etc. I'm notassociated with any of these. Um butmodal is just a good product.Trigger.dev is a good product. We've setup some workflows there and there are acouple of other builders too that likeessentially do this function. Butessentially the way that u modal worksis it's really simple. You just take aPython script and then you turn it intoa cloud function. It's also pay-per-use.So when your workflow isn't running,it'll spin down and it'll cost nothing.You'll get a web hook URL just like youwould from make or nad. And it's alsovery cheap, especially for Python basedexecution scripts. They gave me $5 ofcredits the beginning of this month andI think so far I've used like 3 cents.So very very very affordable. The bestpart is you don't need to know anythingabout any of these platforms to behonest. They're built for agents and soagents know how to crawl them andtraverse them and set things up reallyeasily because their documentation isfantastic. All I really had to do inorder to do this, which I'll show you ina moment, is say turn this into a cloudfunction. And then it did everythingelse. Now, the web hook URLs that modalgives you can be called from anywhere,including by other agents. And then italso allows people at regardless ofwhatever skill level you are to set upthis sort of web hook or event- drivenflow. It's sort of like nadn or make.comor you know gumloop or zapier any one ofthese platformsthese will expose these little web hookurls right and you take these web hookurls and then you give them to serviceslike I don't know um clickup orinstantly or pandadoc or whatever theheck you want right well this is exactlywhat modal does it's just instead ofgiving it to you in sort of this visualway um we just do it through naturallanguage we're like hey set this thingup and then give me a web hook URL sothat I can call here's what the requestbody is going to look like. Cool. Wedone. Awesome. Thank you very much. Thatsaid, wanted to take a couple steps backhere just in case people didn't knowwhat web hooks are. If what I just saidmade no sense to you, that's okay. I'mgoing to cover it. First of all, a webhook is literally just a URL thattriggers your workflow when somethinghits it. So, an external system like aCRM or website form or make or n canactually just call a URL like thisautomatically. It's just like adoorbell. When somebody presses it, yourworkflow will wake up and run. Um, youdon't necessarily have to be there to doit. If you guys have ever done any homeautomation stuff, any sort of like, Idon't know, switches or whatnot, it'sthe same it's the same idea. There'slike some URL somewhere, somedestination, it could even be yourwebsite, and when somebody visits it, ittriggers something that does somethingelse. Obviously, the something else inthis case is going to be our automatedworkflow. If I had a URL like this,let's say it's mynick-thbot.webhook.com,I could do anything with this URL. LikeI I could literally just like enter thisinto my browser and press enter, and itwould trigger a flow. Or I could send anHTTP request which is um like a webrequest through make.com nada and anyother noode builder. I could do itthrough my terminal. I could do itthrough an agent. But basically this isjust a destination on the internet.Okay, that's like a node and whensomebody accesses the node, this thingdoes some logic and depending on whetheror not the node input fits itsspecifications, it'll continue and thencall whatever the heck you want. So webhooks really are just like URL with somelogic attached to them. That's more orless it and they're very very common inany sort of automated scenario. Allright. So, what is the agent doingbehind the scenes in order to set thisup for you? Well, it'll review ouragents.mmd and our claude MD and ourgemini.mmd and so on and so forth. Justto understand the setup first, ideallysomewhere in there, you would say, "Hey,you know, as part of your work, one ofthe things you do is you set up cloudweb hooks or cloud scheduled workflowson modal. Here's how to do so." What itthen does is it looks at your existingexecution scripts for the workflow thatyou want to deploy. It'll wrapeverything in a simple format that modalreally likes proper decorators andwhatnot and then if there are anyprompts or API keys or whatever it'llactually like ask you for them althoughI find most of the time it'splug-and-play it's just like oh you knowI have the keys let me convert them intomodals format once deployed you get asimple URL this is the you know nodethat it calls um this is the phonenumber that other systems can give aring in order to make something happenand then in whatever service you'reusing because this is obviously beingtriggered by some service by somenotification from Slack or some someincoming web hook from instantly orwhatever, you just give them the webhook URL. And a lot of the time there'slike a field or something and it'll say,"Hey, what's the web hook URL you wantus to send results to?" And then youjust put it there. The request justneeds to match the format that the agentexpects. It's usually in what's calledJSON or JavaScript object notation. Youdon't actually need to know JSONnowadays. Um, all you need to do is beable to recognize it. Typically startswith some curly braces and then whenyour agent sees this, um, you know, youcan just copy and paste whatever you seein the web hook documentation. It'll gofrom a demo to actually doing stuffreally, really quickly, which isfantastic. If you don't know how toconnect stuff, you literally just ask,"Hey, how do I set up, you know, ClickUpto call this web hook when a new leadcomes in agent or Claude or Gemini orwhatever you're using, we'll actuallywalk you through all that step by step,especially if it's a platform specificUI thing. I find a lot of the timethey'll just pick, oh, um, here's thelink. Just go to this link and thenyou're done." You don't need to spendhours Googling stuff or chatbing stuff.This is exactly what the tools are goodat. So, don't sweat it. And to take thatone step further, if you wanted to,instead of making it web hook driven,have it schedule driven, you just usesomething called cron. Um, again, thisis something that's very native that issupported by Modal and our agents out ofthe box. Instead, you just say, "Hey,can you run this thing at, you know,5:00 p.m. every single day, and it'll doit. No complex configuration. You justdescribe when you want something to run.It'll handle all the syntax anddeployment details." That's just kind ofannoying for me because I spent a lot oftime learning cron way back in the daywhen I wanted to schedule simple things.But, um, yeah, it's just like setting arecurring calendar reminder. You're justdoing it for your workflows. So, Godbless the fact that we are at this pointwhere technology can do all that for usbecause good lord do I not want to haveto learn another scheduling syntaxagain. Okay, so some example prompts.You just say, "I want my weekly workflowreport to run automatically every Mondayat 9:00 a.m. It'll actually set up thecron for you. Deploy it to modal and soon and so forth." You know, agent willfigure out the rest. Whatever yourtiming is, whether it's every minute,every hour, every year, every 2,000years, whatever, like you can set thisstuff up really, really easily. Don'tsweat it. Um there is some likemisunderstanding usually in modal aboutlike API keys and tokens and credentialsand stuff like that. Um inevitably youwill need obviously to connect oneplatform to another and there is alwaysgoing to be some inherent risk inuploading a secret to the server. Sojust keep that in mind.