and they realized that this is justlike the superior format and then theymade either regulations depending onwhere you live or just heavilyincentivized the market to just produceUSBC's because USBC's if we all juststandardize to one adapter means thatlike I could just buy any device andthen I could just slot that into anyother device and it would just work. Idon't have to carry around 20 differenttypes of cables. I just know that thissort of adapter function is just goingto make everything work and uh it'sgoing to be super easy and moreconvenient. That's essentially just whatMCP is. We're just doing that for our AIagents. This was introduced by Enthropicback in November 2024. It's astandardized way for AI assistants toconnect to any external data and tools.And this isn't just Claude to be clear.Um they just made this for everybody. Sothis works with, you know, like theOpenAI family of models. This works withthe Gemini family models. The whole ideais it just eliminates the need for thosecustom USBs for every connection. Just auniversal translator. It's like imaginethere was some language that you knowanybody on planet earth could speak andyou know when you meet a person whodoesn't speak the other language thatyou speak you just all use the samelanguage it's espironto or whatever butit's for um you know AI agents that'sbasically it there are two main piecesto understand there are MCP clients onone hand and then there are MCP serverson the other hand so you know theseclients are basically our AI apps sothese are our things like anti-gravitythese are our VS codes and these arealso are things like uh I don't knowclawed desktopthese are things like you know chat GPTand basically what these are is youremember how earlier in the course Isaid that chats are just like theinterfaces that agents are using rightnow they're sort of borrowing thembecause we don't have a better interfacewell that's essentially all a client isit's just an interface so the client isthe tool that houses the agent rightit's the shell around it and what thisdoes is it connects to servers and theseservers are based on specific tools. Sofor instance, there is an Appify MCPserver. In addition to an Appify MCP,there's like an Apollo MCP.There is a I don't know Google DriveMCP. There's a Sheets MCP.And the point is whatever client you'reusing at the time, so maybe anti-gravityin this case, just calls the specificMCP whose configuration files youinclude in your workspace. So inanti-gravity I might have you know anappy mcp drive mcp and sheets mcp andthen what I do is I just say hey can youyou know look at my drive for whateverfile and then turn that into a big CSVand then can you feed that CSV into appyand you know assuming that these threeMCPS are good because there's a lot ofquality variance in MCPS right now um itcan actually do what you want it to doyou can also store highle directivesthat explain how to chain these togethereven more in-depthly and more reliablyand then the MCPS are essentially allyjust your execution scripts. Right nowthere are three main ways that MCPservers communicate with MCP clients.There are resources which are structureddata like documents, code, databaserecords and so on and so forth. Thenthere are tools which are functions thatyour agent can call. These are analogousto execution scripts on our end. Andthen there are prompts which arebasically just like system prompts forspecific things. They guide how themodel should interact with specificserver. Hey, you should use this uhexecution script when you want to dothis function. Hey, you should call thisresource. You shouldn't pagionate all ofthem. You should only call the first 50lines. This just is like highleinstructions that help the model dothings more reliably. The whole idea ofMCP is really just to make the entireinternet web accessible to our agents.Every tool gets its own MCP server. Whatyour agent does is it only loads theones that you absolutely need. Thismeans you never have to build customtools from scratch. though I think it ispretty easy and pretty great to getyourself that functionality and you getto give your agent breadth out of thebox with very little effort on yourpart. In addition, you can also buildyour own custom MCP servers. The valuehere is not only are you going to haveyour own agent use it, of course, youcould share it with other people. And bysharing it with other people, you caneither ask them to either pay you orsomething to build the MCP server or,you know, let's say you're an API thatbuilds an MCP server around yourfunction, you can make things moreaccessible and then increase yourcompany revenues. So, it's very veryeasy to build these things with AIassistance. When MCP came out, it wasvery difficult, but now it's super easy.I actually built one in 10 minutes theother day. I never read any MCPdocumentation and it did somethingreally cool for me, which I may talkabout in a future video. This means youcan create specialized tools forspecific workflow needs anytime that youwant. And then if other people within,let's say, your organization want to usethis or whatever, you just share the MCPserver. Uh it's always going to work thesame out of the box because it's thesame server now. There are multiplepeople that can iterate and improve it,not just you. So the main question I getat this point is why don't we just useMCP for everything? Sounds great, right?Maybe we should. Well, the reason why isbecause MCP takes a lot of tokens. Andthe more context a model deals with, thedumber it gets. If you fed in the exactsame prompt to two models, except promptone said what you wanted it to say in, Idon't know, 10 words, and prompt twosaid the exact same thing, but it wroteit really inefficiently and made itreally, really, really, really long. Themodel would almost always perform betterhere. Maybe this would have a 99%success rate, whereas this would have an85% success rate or something. What Imean to say is there's a very strongrelationship between token count incontext and then performanceand this is improving as models get moreintelligent but essentially performanceas tokens go longer and longer andlonger in the context almost alwaysnecessarily will decline. It's notexactly like this because usually whenyou provide more context, it's actuallya little like bump until you get to acertain point and then it startsdeclining because it's like here wedidn't really provide enough informationfor the model to know what's going on.Whereas here, maybe we provided a bunchof examples or whatever, which is why itdoes better. But inevitably, the longerthat you um add a bunch of informationthat isn't relevant to your task, themore tokens that you have in thatprompt, the crappier your outputs aregoing to be. And the issue with MCP isit actually loads pretty much all of itsavailable functions into your agentscontext window. Now there are somedevelopments that are fixing this. Theseare like at runtime MCP servers where umyour AI just makes an intelligentdetermination about which MCP servers toload and stuff like this. But MCP as aframework is still pretty new and a lotof the MCP servers out there are prettycrappy. So regardless, we're loading aton of tokens into a context window.Every function will have a name. They'llhave a description. There'll also be aschema. This will be a few hundredtokens usually. And what that means isif you connect five servers and everyserver has 10 tools. So like if youconnected to the drive server and thenthe drive server had I don't know getfile. Okay, this is one of the functionsor execution scripts. I don't know ithas read file. It has share file and soon and so forth. Right? Every single oneof these would have a name, description,schema, name, description, schema, name,description, schema. We're gettingreally high up in the tokens already,right? If you have 300 tokens perdefinition, even five servers with 10tools each means 15,000 tokens. Andthat's before you've done anything. So,it's like you're already on that graphthat I showed you guys earlier, youknow, if this is your performance whenyour token count is really low, you'reprobably already like down over here.You have some loss in percentage, whichis just ultimately not efficient forbusiness purposes. And you're probablywondering like, well, Nick, how bad isit really? What I want to do here is Ijust want to show you a quick example onsome older models. And obviously, keepin mind that in order for us to doresearch on things, they necessarilyhave had to been out for a while. Um,but older models and how their accuracyon tasks scales with the number ofdocuments in the input context. Sonumber of documents in the input contextis basically equivalent to tokens inthis way. So I don't know just call thethe number you know one document in thiscase is probably equal to like 1,000tokens or something like that. So as wesee here at the very beginning when thecontext is quite small and we only havefive documents in the input context. Youknow this um model here GBT3.5 turbo 16kperforms very well. It performs maybesomewhere around 75% or so. The secondwe double that accuracy is now toslightly over 65%. We double that againand now it's almost down to 60%. Andthen if we 1.5x that, now it's likesomewhere between 50 and 60%. Soperformance here really drops offextraordinarily quickly. And so to makea long story short, the reason why thishappens is really similar to what Ishowed you guys earlier on in a demowhere like if you just have one tokenand then you have three potential tokenshere, you know, basically every singletime you are forced to compute like thenext token in a sequence, the totalvariance of the things that you could begenerating just kind of go through theroof. And so that's that's what'soccurring here. In order for you knowthis model to somehow know that theright answer is over here obviously itneeds to somehow maintain some degree ofaccuracy and coherence. And that justbecomes less and less and less and lesslikely uh the more tokens that yougenerate. Now obviously it doesn'thappen this quickly. It happens over thecourse of many thousands of tokensnowadays. But back in the day when I wasworking with um just the base vanillaGPT2 the output quality was supersensitive to the number of tokens theinput prompt. Like if you added anadditional five tokens and those tokenswere not very high quality tokens, theydidn't really add a lot of value. Likeaccuracy would plunge off a cliff. Screwdocuments here. Pretend like we're justtalking number of tokens. At five itmight be 70, but at 10 it wouldliterally jump down and so on and soforth. So anytime you try and get to anyreasonable answer, you're alreadyworking super super below um you knowtotal accuracy limits. Here's anotherexample of memory retrieval accuracy. Sobasically if there is some token buriedsuper deep in the context of you know amodel that's doing 2 million48,000context window um it forgets it you knowwhen there are only 30,000 tokens in theprompt or whatever it sees and finds itlike 100% of the time but if there are Idon't know 2 million it'll actuallyforget about that a massive chunk of thetime and it won't even realize like thatthere is a token within its context.basically its ability to retrieve thingsfrom its memory, intermediate memory inthis case, which is just the chat andthe prompt, um, plummets. Finally, youcould see here a needle in the haystacksort of example. Um, very similar towhat we were talking about earlier, butbasically as the number of tokens goesup, you see a massive decrease in justthe model's ability to meaningfully keeptrack of things. And this is just sortof the way that intelligence works,right? The more things we're trying tojuggle and keep in our headsimultaneously, the higher thelikelihood that we're going to forgetany one of them. So, as a demonstrativeexample, let's say I wanted my agent towrite me an absolutely beautiful poemall about the meaning of life and ourplace in the universe. I say, "I'm a bigfan of MayaangAngelou and Pablo Nuto iswonderful as well. Please make this umshort but also punchy and verybeautiful." If you think about itlogically, like this prompt right hereis a certain number of tokens and I cancount that here. I'm using a servicecalled wordcounter.net. It doesn't counttokens, it counts words. But if you wantthe number of tokens, you basically justgrab the number of words, then youmultiply it by, you know, uh, 1 divid0.7 approximately. If I do that math,this is somewhere on the order of like67 tokens. But I want you to lookreally, really closely at what I justwrote here. Are all of these wordsrequired in order to get the model to dosomething for us? Like what is theinformation density of this sentence?Hello. Is that required? Probably not,right? I could probably realisticallyremove that. could. It's kind of a longway to say can. Can can you is kind of along way to just tell it to writesomething. So, write me an absolutelybeautiful do I need that? No. Write me abeautiful poem all about no about themeaning of life and our place in theuniverse. I sayemulate Maya AngelouPablo Naruda.Short, punchy,and I don't actually need to say verybeautiful because I just said so earlierup here. Now, if you compare what I justwrote um initially at 47 words to what Iwrote here at 22 words, notice how Ibasically said the exact same thing Idid in the first prompt just in terms ofthe actual like pure informationdensity. I just did it in less than halfof the words. So now instead of 67tokens, this is probably somewhere rightaround like, you know, 28 tokens orsomething like that. What that means,walking back to our example, is you canrealistically significantly improve theultimate quality of an output just byrefactoring the sentences that you feedinto a prompt. Instead of hello, couldyou write me an absolutely beautifulpoem all about the meaning of life orwhatever, I could create a new promptinstance and then I could just say theexact same thing. And instead of medoing this on, you know, two lines orsomething like that, I could do this onone line. And although it is verydifficult to determine the quality of apoem quantitatively what is occurringstatistically is the quality of thispoem over here will be better than thequality of this poem over here. Thereason why is I just wrote it in ashorter sort of punchier way. So asopposed to if you think about this graphum you know quality and then the promptlengthas opposed to me being somewhere overhere like in this example realisticallythis example I'm probably somewhere overhere right so the reason I'm showing youthis is because this is exactly whatmodels are actually doing under the hoodinstead of writing in in like laboriouslong sort of ways what they are doing isthey're actually compacting the wordsthat you are saying into as high aninformation density summary of yourprompt as humanly possible. And theyhave a couple of strategies to do this.I don't know if you guys have seen likereasoning tokens, but the way thatreasoning occurs here is it's actuallydone like a very high informationdensity way. They actually specificallyhave trained the model to write in a waythat is shorter on tokens as opposed tolonger. If you look at other models outthere like GPTOSS 20 bill for instanceor maybe 120 bill, um these are opensource models that OpenAI released alittle while ago. You'll notice when youexpand the reasoning tokens a verypeculiar thing. It writes super short.It says need to define X but also Y butmaybe Z. And you're like what the heck'sgoing on? This is like an alien reallyshort form way of writing. Well, thereason why it's writing that way isbecause it's just much higherinformation density. And the highertheformational content in your promptper token, the ultimate better responseyou are going to get. Another strategythat models will use is they willcompact. Okay? And what I mean by thisis basically every time you feed in anyprompt to a model, what it's also doingis it's going back and feeding in everymessage that you and it have ever sentto each other in the same chain. So whatcompaction is is it basically is justyou take the entire history of yourprompt and then you just summarize it.Summarize everything we've talked aboutso far. So now I'm just going to have itsummarize it all into a very succinctmessage. And then the way the compactionworks is once we hit a certain tokenamount which uh could be you know 50% ofthe total number of tokens allotted orwhatever this summary is then fed intothe next instance of the model and sonow you know a future instance of inthis case claude code would have accessto more or less the full summary. Surewe'll miss some details but a lot ofthose details aren't really thatconsequential or important anyway. Thinkof how many fewer tokens this is thanliterally my entire conversation historyfrom start to finish. Another big issueis when your agent calls an MCP tooldirectly, the entire response goes intothe context. So if I were wanted to pulla document from Google Drive, forinstance, I would actually then have tostore the entire thing in my context, atleast the way models are right now. If Iwanted to query a Google sheet for like10 rows or something, let's say all 10rows had like 20 columns each. Well, nowI have 200 additional cells within mycontext. Meaning that your agent can hitthe context ceiling really fast. theycan burn a ton of money and so on and soforth when you use generalized MCPtools, not tools that you buildyourself, but ones that other peoplebuild for you without really optimizingthe process.Last thing I'm going to note on this isnot all MCP servers are created equal. Alot of servers are rushed to market tocapitalize on the hype. I know a couplejust off the top of my head that arejust super poor. They don't return likeany good error codes. They don't eveninteract with the APIs correctly andtons of people are unfortunatelystruggling because of that. Um, somegood examples are perplexities and NANDservers. Uh, but some really badexamples of this, too. I'm not going toname the names, but some are a completejoke. In general, you will know when youstart interacting with an MCP server.Just going to flag a bunch of errors.Your model's just going to be dumb ashell. You could tell pretty quick. Allright, so let me show you how easy it isto connect the Google Drive MCP server.We've already done a little bit of MCP.I've obviously