wewant. And in that way, because we'reshortening the total gap, models arecapable of performing economicallyvaluable work. So what we're going to dois wrap this super galaxy brainintelligence in a framework. And thisframework is going to allow us tocontrol it for beneficial purposes forultimately business ends. Okay. So howdo you actually do that? Well, this isnow where you get into DO or thedirective orchestration and executionframework. What we do is we separateconcerns. Directives up at the very topprovide very clear unambiguousinstructions to the system. These aredocuments which if you guys rememberwere sort of the first rung on thatknowledge ladder. Orchestration, if youthink about the PTMRO loop, is where thelarge language model does its thing. Itchooses what to do and in what order.And then execution scripts are theactual heavy lifting. And we don't dothat with the model itself. What we dothat are with little snippets of codethat the model has built, then test, andthen retested over and over and overagain. Okay? I typically do this inPython right now, but I want you guys toknow you can do this with whateverprogramming language you want. Themodels tend to be pretty good at I wantto say most of them equally. The reasonwhy this works so well is because ofthis concept of separation of concerns.Essentially, anything that isdeterministic aka something that like abusiness would use. So maybe an APIcall, some sort of data transformation,some sort of file ops actually go intocode. Code is always the same everysingle time. If you give it input A,it'll always give you output B. There'snever any variability unless youspecifically program that in. So, it'sreally, really interpretable. It's very,very clear how it works. And you neverreally need to wonder, hm, is that doingwhat I wanted it to do? Because it'sonly going to do what you told it to do.And then what we do is we leverage thereally flexible, cool parts of AI tomake judgments, to make routingdecisions, and so on and so forth. Codeis really reliable. It's also super fastand precise. LLMs are flexible,adaptive, and then also handle ambiguityreally well. So, what we're doing iswe're combining the best of both parts.We combine AI's incredible ability toroute and be flexible and so on and soforth with deterministic code'sextraordinarily ability to run reallyquickly, really precisely, and really,really repeatably. When you do this, youget the best of both worlds, and you canmake a ton of money with it. That's howAgentic workflows work in a nutshell.What's interesting is you probably wouldnot have understood any of this had younot watched the last hour to hour and ahalf of content all about the basis andthe foundations. Some other reasons LLMsare really really bad at basicoperations. When I say basic operations,I mean math. Up until quite recently, umLLM couldn't even count the number ofletters in a word. That's something thatyou could build a Python script to do inlike 0.1 seconds. You know, if you havea big list of numbers or something, youuse LLM to sort those numbers. It's kindof like hiring a PhD intelligence tocount some inventory. It's just not thebest cost basis on your end. You'regoing to spend way too much money andget way too little of a result. Hencewhy we pushed the deterministic tasks toscripts and then reserve the LLMprocessing with the tokens for actualthinking. Also makes everything cheaper.Just for the purposes of demonstration,if I gave an LLM a really simple taskand I said, "Hey, I have all of these umletters, okay, and they're all arranged,you know, in this list." And let's saythis list hypothetically isn't just, youknow, six letters long. It's like a 100thousand or 10,000 items long orsomething. It's just like really reallylong. Okay, so just pretend that I putthis thing together and I give it to anLM. If I had the large language modelsort this thing, it would have to runbillions upon billions upon billions ofmathematical operations to sort thislist. If I gave this to a Python script,it could literally do this entire thingin one function call. I could probablydo it in like 5 seconds on my own, noteven with a large language model. And itwould take milliseconds. If you look atthe actual mathematical time and thenthe resource usage when you use uhdeterministic scripts to do things likethis, these mathematical simpleoperations like sort a big list, youcould do it 10,000 to 100,000 timesfaster with deterministic code. And thenit's also for the most part free becauseit's operating on your CPU orextraordinarily low cost cuz it'soperating on some cloud CPU or GPU umthat's very very uh affordable. Thisgets more and more and more difficultthe more you do. Instead of having thelarge language model do math for us,what we do is we build a calculator tooland then we say, "Hey, can you call thecalculator tool to do the math for us?"In this way, obviously, we're maximizingthe best of all possible worlds. So nowI want to show you the differencebetween using a large language model'snative intelligence to do something thatI think most would consider very simple,which is just sorting a list, and thenusing a Python script to do it instead.And I'm showing you this because thereare so many advantages to usingprocedural deterministic tools likePython scripts. It's hard for me to knowwhere to begin, but I just wanted togive this to you guys sort of as arepresentative example. So, what I'vedone up here is I've just had AI or anagent assist me with the creation of abrief demo list that I'm going to sort.The first thing I'm going to do is I'mgoing to tell it to sort the list on itsown. Sort the list using only yournative LLM intelligence. Do not make useof any tools. Time yourself and at theend, let me know how long it took.What I'm going to do now is let it run.And you'll see that when its native LLMintelligence does the sorting, it takessignificantly longer in order to do so.We can see the time that it's taking byexpanding this reasoning tab.Scroll all the way down here. You cansee it's actually manually outputtingevery token. Here we go. And now it'sactually gone through and sorted thelist alphabetically by name. Okay.Anyway, it told us it didn't have itsown internal clock or whatever, butrealistically, as you guys could see andprobably timestamped the video, thistook what, 30 seconds or something likethat from start to finish. Now, I wantyou to see how quickly it is when wejust run a script to do it instead. Now,run the script.So, what it's going to do is insteadit's just going to call said script,then it'll immediately sort this withsignificantly higher levels of accuracyon the right hand side. Now, I shouldnote that the amount of time it took meto call the large language model andactually have it do the thing, that's abunch of latency here that we're notactually taking into account.Realistically, this took 53milliseconds. The LLM, I mean, it'ssaying 3 to 5 seconds, but as you cantell, it doesn't really understand itsown internal processing. So, it's closerto, you know, 15 to 30. That is umseveral hundred times faster. And notonly is it several hundred times faster,a point that I'm going to makerepeatedly throughout this course isalso several hundred times freer becauserunning a Python script to sort of liston your own CPU or even on cloud CPUwhen we get into uh posting web hooksand actually hosting these things onservers that aren't ours is like isessentially free. I mean it's it'soccurring in the space of I don't know aneuron in your brain firing. Thisthing's doing a whole whole buttload ofwork. And you can see even down here itsaid this is the core argument forpushing deterministic work into tools.The LLM handles decision-making whereasthe script handles execution. That's amajor part of how we are going to betalking about how to use these and buildthese agentic workflows later on. So ina nutshell, my whole point is reserveyour large language model calls forjudgment. Let code handle the rest. Bydoing so, things will be significantlyfaster, things will be significantlymore reliable and things will also besignificantly cheaper. This is where theDO directive orchestration executionframework comes into play and it's howwe're going to be building out the restof the workflows in this course. Let'stalk a little bit more about how toactually do this. Now, okay, sounsurprisingly, right now everything todo with the Gentic Workflows happens inwhat's called an IDE. If you guys areunfamiliar with IDE, that stands forintegrated development environment. Now,idees look like this, and you've seenthem already multiple times throughoutthis course. What they are is they arebasically programming environments. Now,agentic workflows are not idees. To beclear here, this is just a way thatwe're communicating with them. If youguys remember way back in the beginningof this course, I talked about how chatswere sort of like an interface and thenagents were like things that livedinside of the interface almost the waythat a crustation has shells and it canchange shells at will. Well, right now,because programmers usually build stuffand because agentic workflows arecomposed of the same thing thatprogrammers used to build, we justhappen to do them in an IDE. But I wantyou to know that this is most likely tochange. Now, I don't like IDEIDesbecause they just are really overlytechnical for a lot of newbies, peoplethat don't understand this stuff, andthey look at it and they look at all thelines on the page and all the differentpartitions and sections and then theygo, "Holy crap, Nick. This is way toocomplicated. I'm not a technical person.I don't want to deal with it." But whatI want to do in this course is I want toavail you of the notion that you have tobe technical in order to understandwhat's going on. What this is is this isjust the same thing as like a bunch ofinstrumentation panels on a car orsomething. You know, the very first timeyou step into a car, you don't know howthe odometer works. You don't have anyidea what the gear shift is, how theradio works, and all that stuff. This isthe exact same thing. I'm currentlytaking my pilot's license right now, andlet me tell you, the damninstrumentation panels on even theoldest and and cheapest of aircraft aresort of the way that I imagine IDs areto people that have never touched thesethings. So I entirely empathize with youand I'm going to walk you through it allin a moment. So as mentioned IDE standsfor integrated development environment.I think of it as basically MicrosoftWord just for code instead of you knownatural text documents. They're composedof workspaces and this is the samelanguage that basically any IDE will usewhere you basically just write organizerun and then manage everything in oneplace. And it's important for me to notelike how this works in a historicalbasis cuz otherwise you'll be like whythe hell did we choose this? Well, thereason why is because back in the day,we actually used to have like five orsix different tools. Uh, programmerswould use tool number one to like writetheir code. Then they'd use tool numbertwo to test their code. Then they jumpover into tool number three to, I don'tknow, run their code, tool number fourto host their code, tool number five tocommit their code into a a repository sothey could save it, and tool number sixto do something else. And so there wasjust so much switching going on, right?We had to jump from tool number one totool number two, whatever. And thensomebody was just like, "Wait a second.Why don't we just combine all of theseinto one unified tool? Sure, theinterface will probably be an absolutecluster, but you know, this is more thanenough and it'll probably simplify andand alleviate some of the contextswitching." And that's basically whathappened here. We basically just stuckthem all into this one tool. And thistool is really like 20 or 30 toolssimultaneously, which is why it looks socomplicated. Now, over the course ofjust the last year or so, ids havegotten way smarter. And I mean smarterhere as in like AI. So, in the lastyear, basically every IDE has added someform of AI chat capability. Old schoolones like VS Code, and I'm going tocover what all these are in a minute,added built-in AI assistance quiterecently. And then newer tools likeanti-gravity, big one that Google justreleased, are now less like codingworkspace, and they've just eliminatedand streamlined most of the UX. So, it'salmost all just like AI based agentstuff. Basically, the line betweenwriting code and then just directing AIto do it all for you through naturallanguage is blurring really quickly. Andthat's um one of the motivations behindour course actually. So this over hereis VS Codes logo. This over here is umanti-gravities. And this over here iscursor. These are three relativelypopular tools that I'm going to touch onin a little bit more detail. And thenI'm actually going to walk through VSCode and anti-gravity just so you guyscould see how all this stuff reallyplays out. In a nutshell, if you guysare going to be comfortable with agents,you need to be comfortable in an IDE.That's just the whole goal of today'smodule. So three areas of your IDE.There's a file explorer on the left.There's an editor panel in the centerand then there's an agent chat panel onthe right. Let's cover all of them indetail. On the lefth hand side, we havethe file explorer. The file exploreralmost always looks something like this.All this is is it's just another waythat you guys can explore files. Justlike on a Mac or a PC, you have thenative file explorer. Here, your filesare just arranged vertically as follows.This little tab just means that this isa folder. And if you click on one ofthese, obviously, this will open andexpand. and then you'll be able to seeall the files within. So just as like asanity test, this um first kind of linehere, this first folder is period claand there are a bunch of other filesinside of period claude. Same thinghere. Period dev container periodprompts period tmp period venv. Youmight be wondering, Nick, what the helldo any of these things mean? I'll behonest, I have AI do most of that. Idon't even know, nor do I really care.The whole job of coding is not the pointof gentic workflow building. All I'mdoing is I'm just giving highleinstructions and I have the AI deal withthe how. Next up, we have a directivesfolder as you guys see here, anexecution folder as we guys see here. UhI also have a folder called for_youtubein my workspace. This is where I storethings like this course node modulesprompts trigger, right? What you'llnotice is eventually we run out offolders, these little things with thetabs, and then everything else is just afile. So I have this file here, thisfile here, this file here. We we got aton of files in the workspace. Buthopefully now you guys have like lookedat it and squinted hard enough at itthat you guys at least understand thatthere's nothing magical going on here.This is just a file explorer. So justlike with any other file explorer, youcan create files, you can rename files,you can delete files, and you canorganize everything you want from here.For Aentic work, at least in our case,the DO framework. This is also where thedirectives and executions folders live.As we saw earlier, I had the directivesfolder here and then the executionfolder. I'm going to dive into those andactually show you what these look likein a moment. And really just the way tothink about this whole thing is as afiling cabinet. Okay, that does not looklike an F, but we're going to roll withit regardless. This is just your filingcabinet for your agent. And so that ishow I want you to think about thismoving forward. In the middle of thepage, you have the editor panel. Now,this is typically in the center,although some idees will vary. That'sokay. I'll cover two instances today.When you click on a file, this is wherethey open. And so for instance, as wesee here in this middle panel, I have afile open called capitalized agents.mmd.Now we get into system prompts and howto actually control these u modelsthrough long-term context later on. Butthis is basically just like a file thatyou will add to any workspace and it'lljust be injected at the very top of youragent. So the agent will just always seethis in its context 24/7. And in mycase, what I do is I just give it somehighle instructions describing myframework. Hey, you operate within athree-layer architecture that separatesconcerns to maximize reliability becauseof the same things that I just taught toyou. LLMs are probabilistic. Mostbusiness logic deterministic so on andso on and so forth. Okay? So, we'llcover this file later, but for now, Ijust want you to know that you canactually open multiple files and tabsjust like a browser. You guys see herehow this is sort of like a tab. Well,you can actually have multiple otherones open, too. I could have, you know,another file here, and then another filehere, and another file here. You'llnotice that some of these letters aredifferent colors. You see how this one'sblue and then this uh little um you knowright arrow is green and then this textis white and then this is uh sort oforangey. Well, the reason why is justbecause um this this is a naturallanguage file. This is markdown it'scalled which is a specific format. Butlike when you're dealing with code likePython and JavaScript and Node and so onand so forth, there's just so manydifferent types of text that coloring itjust makes it a little bit easier on theeyes and you can just tell what's goingon faster. So in the case of markdown,which is the format that my naturallanguage or almost plain text files arein, um if something is in blue, it's aheader. So you know that this is like aheader of some kind, right? Same thingover here, right? This is a header orit's like bolded, right? So that's whatthat is. If something is in orange, youknow it's written in like code format.So anytime you write something in codeformat, it's done with these little backtexts. Something is in white, odds areit's just like normal text. Something'sin green, it's like a comment orsomething like that, right? This dependson the format. Typically, we only usetwo or three formats in Aentic Workflow.So, you're just going to figure this outreally quick. Nor does it really matterto be honest because you you neveractually read