good at coding. Like, like, I mean, Itried to look through and understandwhat any of these actual questions meantand how to fix them. I'd probably bestaring at each of these for like a daybefore anything makes sense. Um, letalone before I get to the point where Icould realistically solve it. Thesemodels can do this sort of thing in inseconds. So, issue problem statement.Hey, removing a required column from atime series raises a misleading errormessage. The error claims the timecolumn is missing even when it'spresent. Instead, the error should listall missing required columns. Then itgives you a snippet of code with theactual class time series. Right? Solooking at that, no idea what the hellthat does. The bug, if flux is missing,error still complains about time. Errormessage is factually incorrect. You'refix detect which required columns aremissing. Report them explicitly. So youactually have to go through and you haveto do this with the code. Okay, here'sone from sort of like a Panda stylequestion. Load CSV silently coercesmixtype columns instead of failingquickly which leads to incorrectdownstream computations and then it likeprovides a list. So, we now have modelsthat are basically capable of looking ata thousand of these and solving morethan 800 of them perfectly. I mean, ifyou gave me a thousand of these, notonly would I take like a year, I wouldprobably get at least, you know, 50% ofthese things wrong. And I'm somebodythat has some exposure to this sort ofstuff. Imagine the average person. Andso what I mean to say is that we areessentially empowering every human beingon earth or at least we have thepotential to empower if we were toactually distribute this technology andif everybody were to know it to thelevel that you will know it by the endof this course with the powers of like amid-level to even senior developer inmany cases. Another important point ishow fast these models can operate. Imean this is me asking chat GPT 5.2thinking to just reason a little bitabout the meaning of life. Check out thestream of output that it's providing.But you can go way faster than that.This is an example of a diffusion LLMthat it basically immediately processesand writes I don't know how many hundredwords, but extraordinarily quickly. Yousee that we just click generate and thenimmediately after, you know, probably atleast 300 words for instantiated. Thesemodels can run these reasoning loopsextremely quickly behind closed doors.In addition, providers like uh Anthropicand OpenAI and Gemini and stuff have allthe compute necessary to run thesethings like 10, 50, 100 times fasterthan you are yourself. So just imaginewhat's going to happen when that levelof technology drips down to the rest ofthe economy. Like to be clear, thesemodels, the ones that I'm using to buildagentic workflows, are already extremelypowerful and have automated the vastmajority of my day-to-day work. They canautomate the vast majority of yourday-to-day work as well or any of thecompanies that you work with. Butimagine the models in 3 months. Imaginethe models in a year from now. That'swhy learning how to build these sorts ofworkflows today is probably one of thehighest ROI skills that you can engagein. The second thing is tool integrationis now standardized. So there's someprotocols out there like model contextprotocol which standardizes how AIconnects to external tools, databases,resources, and stuff like that. I'mgoing to be showing you guys how to usemodel context protocol in prettyadvanced ways that I don't think a lotof other people have covered in thiscourse. I'm also going to be talkingabout some of the downsides of modelcontext protocol like how initially ittotally blew but now it's uh actuallypretty good and well supported so it'sit's worth us diving in. In addition toyou know those tools through MCP therealso some frameworks that have recentlycome out. One is directive orchestrationexecution. This is the framework I'mgoing to be using to build and then useour agentic workflows throughout thecourse. There are also platform specificframeworks like cloud skills for thecloud family of models. these formalizetool calling and you know in case youhave no idea what I'm talking about hereLLM are really flexible okay which is agreat thing conceptually it's great ifyou want to write poems and write docreative writing and help you respond toemails and stuff like that but a lot ofbusiness functions don't depend onflexibility what they depend on is theopposite they depend on reliability soin business we need to standardize andtools are basically just standardizedlittle things that we can use in orderto accomplish business tasks I likethinking of it like a caveman that youknow, is hunting saber-tooth tigers orsomething. If you're a caveman andyou're hunting saber-tooth tigers, andevery time you go to a saber-toothtiger, you're completely empty-handed,what are you going to do? The firstthing you're going to do is you're goingto be like, "Holy crap, is that asaber-tooth tiger?" You're going toscrge around on the ground to look forrocks and pointy stabby things and, youknow, sticks and anything that can buyyou some distance and then maybe someeffectiveness. Contrast that with ifbefore you had a little bit of foresightand you said, "Hm, I should probablybuild something that's kind of pointyand sharp." Huh? So, you you work allday and night and you put together aspear. Well, every time you encounterthat problem of the saber-tooth tiger,okay, what are you going to do? You'rejust going to pick up your spear anddeal with it. Just my really crappydrawn spear. That's sort of the samething that LLMs use tools for. Theyencounter problems. When they encounterthem a few times, they then developtools that solve them or usepre-existing ones through MCP. And thenin doing so, we can standardize thesolving of business problems prettyeasily.Okay. The last thing is just costeconomics and they finally make sense.When Claude Opus 4.5 dropped, it wentfrom a cost of about $15 or $75depending on input or output per 1million tokens to five or $25 dependingon input or output for 1 million tokens.That's a 3x reduction. And newer modelsare even cheaper than that. The cost ofintelligence per like effectiveness hasplunged something like 40% in the lastyear. If I were to graph this, it wouldactually look like this. Now, I've beenusing models since GPT3, way back in2020 when it was um initially releasedwith a very small, you know, selectgroup of people that could access it andso on and so forth. GPT3, which is, Imean, orders upon orders upon orders ofmagnitude dumber than this, costs morethan this technology that we are dealingwith right now. It is insane how quicklythe price of knowledge work hasplummeted. It's already gone down 40times in just the last year. I imagineit'll probably go down another 40 timesover the course of the next year, maybeeven more. What that means is we canactually send large volumes of tokens tothese things to replace the work of likedeterministic um old school automationslike the NAN flow that I showed youwithout it running a business raggedinto the ground. There are also tons ofprice wars that are occurring betweenmajor providers and there's a lot oflike geopolitical incentives between,you know, places in the east and thenplaces in the west um to basically makethese things as accessible and easily touse as possible. So to make a long storyshort, this is new. Very few peopleunderstand the capabilities right now.So there are many billions of dollarsthat will shift as the market learns andadapts. It is much better to be an earlymover than somebody that is affected bythis technology uh without their consentor knowingness. What I mean is would yourather learn about this stuff now orwould you rather learn about it in 2years when your boss or I don't knowsome some client base of yours turns toyou and says hey we no longer need youbecause we have aic workflows to do it.I would much rather be the person thathelps them build those agentic workflowsthan I'd be the person that's nowsitting on my ass because I don't knowanything about them. Hopefully, you aretoo. Okay, so now that that bigpreamble's out of the way, let's learnabout chat bots, agents, agenticworkflows, uh, knowledge tools, and thenactually get our hands dirty with somedemos. I like thinking about knowledgetools as evolving over the course of thelast 30, 40 or 50 years. I always thinkabout it sort of like the step ladder onthe right where you have three rungs. Atthe bottom you have documents. In themiddle you have chats and at the top youhave agents. Over the course of the last30 40 50 years we basically transitionfrom knowledge in the form of docs toknowledge in the form of chats over thelast 5 years to knowledge and action inthe form of agents. And I'm going to runyou through what each of these look likenow before actually using them in a realworkflow. So documents are staticknowledge. Hopefully they're prettystraightforward. It's oneway informationflow. All you do is you read thedocument, but it's not like the documentcan respond to you. We currently usedocuments everywhere in school and inbusiness. We use them in legalagreements. We use them in trainingmaterials. Once you write a document, itobviously stays fixed. That's a feature,not a bug, because it's great forpermanence. Like if you're writingcontracts or standard operatingprocedures that are immutable, aka itshould not change. You don't want yourcontract or your standard operatingprocedure rewriting itself unless youwant it to, right? In most cases, youdon't. So, u that's great. That'sactually a feature, not a bug. Chatbots, on the other hand, are not static.They are dynamic. Chat bots weredeveloped realistically way back in the1970s, but we were only starting to usethem for real knowledge purposes andmaybe like the early 2020s. And theyperform two-way interaction. You readthe output, but you can also askquestions back. So, here's a crappy passto GPT40 where I just said, "Hey, what'sup? Hey, Nick. All good on my end. Quickcheck-in. Zero fluff. I'm ready to helpif you want to chat. If you got adecision to make, whatever. What's onyour mind?" This is now two-wayknowledge interaction. the dreadedmdash. Um, this allows you to do thingslike clarify confusing points. You canask for research. You can dig deeperinto topics. You can also modify theknowledge. So, you could upload, youknow, a PDF or you could make somestatement and then the chatbot now hassome additional context. Uh, I justthink of it like really smart colleagueswho read everything you give them, butthen they're also confined to a chair.You know, they can't move and they can'tdo anything with it. So, essentially allyou can do is is talk. This is how mostpeople treat models today as chat bots.They're dynamic knowledge, but they'restill subject to this little window.They can only be communicated with andcopied and pasted through your chatgbtor through your cloud output. Now,contrast that with agents, which Iconsider to be dynamic action. To make along story short, this is two-wayinteraction, just like chat bots, exceptthis time it acts. On the right handside here, you can see I have a flowthat says run the thumbnail generator ona link. So, it's not just asking it aquestion about the thumbnail generator,and I'm actually having it do something.And this is a real agentic workflow thatI developed to basically build YouTubethumbnails like what you guys saw on mychannel. What we see here is afundamentally different interface. Onthe left hand side, we have some ofthese nodes. Green ones here are actionsthat are being taken. These gray littlesections over here are thinking nodes,which are where the model reasons umextemporaneously, basically temporarily,and then discards these reasoningtokens. You can see that it's actuallycalling a script. You don't need to knowPython in order to like have the modeldo really cool things for you, butthat's what's happening right here. Andthen down over here we have a bashoutput where it's actually ran. We havean output that we can then use and so onand so forth. So you're given visibilityinto the reasoning. You're also givenvisibility into the um planning toolmemory reasoning and then observationloop. And I'm going to cover exactlywhat that looks like in a moment. Youalso have autonomy, long executiontimes. Agents can routinely run for 5 or10 minutes. Now yesterday night Iactually had an agent run for over 5hours uninterrupted to build me a reallycool system. As of today I think ofmodels like a mid-tier developer.They're 100K a year or so in terms oftheir like capability. But if you thinkabout it, I'm spending 20 bucks a monthfor this, which is 240 bucks a year,which is over 400 times cheaper. And notonly is it cheaper, this thing works 24hours a day, as I mentioned, or it canwork 24 hours a day. You can do a lot ofreally cool things with models likethis. So now is the time to jump on it.A point to understand is that an agentis not a chatbot, despite the fact thatthey look really similar, right? Now,the way I see chat bots is like a chatis just an interface, right? It's justsome specific thing with messages thatgo back and forth and then a littlewindow down here where you can enter inyour own information. The chat is justlike the app. The agent is what livesinside of the app. If you guys arefamiliar with crustaceians or crabs orum I don't know, like cute little thingsthat crawl around on the ocean subfloor.They often will have fine shells andthen um discard them when they no longerfit their purpose. Right? So, like acrustation that uses the shell of anolder animal, an agent is just currentlyusing the interface of an older type ofknowledge tool, the chatbot. And I'msure over the course of the next fewyears, it's going to discard this andwe're going to have new interfaces thatare even better. Okay, so let me showyou guys just the difference betweenchat bots and then a really low-levelagentic workflow that I put togetherthat functions through an agent. Um,down over here is a chat GPT desktopapp. This is really simple and easy. Youcan download it on chatbt's website.Super straightforward. I'm just going tosay um hey, how can I scrape, you know,leads from LinkedIn Sales Navigator. So,when you're working with models likethis, the input and output is prettybounded, right? All you can really do isyou could just see what this model tellsus. Hey, you know, here's the directhigh IQ zero fluff rundown. Use this,scrape this,use this. This is cool, right? I mean,it's nice that we're getting informationon how to do this. And you know a fewyears ago this would have beenrevolutionary. Rather than just have aconversation with the model and ask ithow to do things which is knowledge. Ican actually force a model to actionusing agentic workflows. So in this caseI'm saying scrape me 200 HVAC owners inthe US. I want decision makers. It thenchecks to see if there are lead scrapingdirectives and execution scripts. Thisis just part of the framework that helpsconstrain the model's output which I'verun you guys through a little bit morelater. It's then going through andactually pulling a script together to dothis thing for me. It then comes up withthis idea of a test scrape, 25 leads.It's then going to verify some industrymatch, run the full scrape, upload toGoogle sheet, and then even go throughand enrich it for me. In this case, themodel is performing a search. It's thencomparing the results of the search withwhat it is that it thinks that I want.It's determining that there's a very lowmatch rate. And so, it's now adjustingits filters on the fly completely on itsown to find leads with zero input. AllI'm doing here is texting a friend ofmine on my phone.It's then verified, past threshold. Nowit's running a full scrape. It then wentand it actually got us a Google sheetwith all that information. I mean, it'spretty cool in so far that it's totallyautonomous. It probably would have takenme a fair amount of time to come up withthe filters and so on and so forthmyself. This thing just did it entirelyon its own. If you guys check the bottomright, we actually ended up gettingalmost 200 emails directly from this. Wealso got a bunch of phone numbers and abunch of other really personalinformation. So, what exactly is goingon? There are five steps that an agentwill follow every single time you sendor receive a message. The first isplanning. The next is tools. The thirdis memory. The fourth is reflection. Andthe fifth is orchestration. I think Icalled it observation before. My bad onthat. But orchestration. I use a simplefiveletter acronym for this. Just ptmro. Helps me remember it. Hopefullyit'll help you remember it as well. Nowthese five components are as follows.Planning is where you break downobjectives into executable steps. Toolsare the actions that an agent actuallytakes in the world. If you guysremember, it was calling various thingsto do what it needed to do. They thenstored things into memory. So this ishow agents retain and recall informationacross tasks. There different forms ofmemory. There's short-term, midterm,long-term, and there's different waysthat that works within an agent thesedays. I'm I'm going to cover each ofthem. Uh reflection is where the agentevaluates and corrects its own work. So,as you saw there, we had an issue withone of the calls and it went through andit fixed the filter. And then finally,orchestration, which is where youcoordinate multiple agents or complexworkflows. We're going to talk about howto do that um later on in the program,too. Obviously, there's planning, andthat's mostly goal decomposition. So,it's where a highle objective getsbroken into subtasks. Um, for instance,if your highle task is to eat at WhiteCastle, you know, it's not just eat atWhite Castle, right? That's not enoughto go and actually do the thing. Whatyou want to do is you want to break thatdown into various tasks. Like maybe stepone is we have to um, I don't know, getin the car, right? Step two is, andmaybe you do this while you're in thecar, you do this before, you got toresearch the um, GPS location. You know,the third is you have to drive all theway over there.And then the fourth is you actually haveto order. And the fifth is you have tomake a movie about it. Just kidding. Butum the point that I'm making is you knowyou take this high level task and youactually break it down. And that isoccurring every single time within anagent. You don't always see it becauseit's typically buried within reasoningand most people don't expose reasoning.But this form of highle goaldecomposition occurs all the time.