to generate it,we used multiple cloud instances togenerate the lead generation workflow inparallel. not only would be able togenerate higher quality lead generationworkflows, we'd be able to create thingsthat are most likely better because weare able to search more opportunitiesand options. If that doesn't make senseto you, I'm just going to copy and pastethe same thing that I pasted in here.Instead of three best approaches, I'llsay five best approaches, I'll say becomprehensive and give me all possibleoptions. And then instead of publiclyavailable information, I'll say HVACcompanies in Texasto get me a list of B2B leads and theiremails.Okay, great. Once I give this parentagent some room to think, what I'm goingto do is I'm then going to open up abunch of additional clawed codeinstances. So, new,new,new,new. So, we're going to have five intotal. What I'm going to do is I'm justgoing toset things up so we could see them all.Next, I'm going to provide somescaffolding. So, I'm just going to say,"Hey, your task is to build a leadgeneration workflow according to thebelow details." I'm giving similar tasksto five other agents. Since you'reoperating the same workspace, uh tominimize the probability of a conflict,do all your work in a new tmp/ test3folder. And then what I'm going to do isI'm just going to feed in all of this.So, I'm going to say boomboomboomboom.And then boom. And now I'm actually justgoing to run all of thesesimultaneously.What's cool is this is going to createnew folders inside of this TMP which arenot going to interfere with our otherdirectives, our execution scripts. I cannow remove this top level script herefor simplicity. And now it's going to gothrough and just create all of these.Not all of these are at the exact samelevel obviously, but um you know thistest two directory structure and thetest 4 uh when they get created they'regoing to just do their work in there. Soin this way I'm capable of exploring alarge number of options in a very shortperiod of time. I mean obviously I cantake a brief highle look at like one ofthese things and say okay this one ismost likely uh the highest probabilityof working but it's much easier if Ijust explore them and then what I do isanytime I run into a hiccup with one ofthese flows I just take a look at whatthe hiccup is and if the hiccup is likeso big that it would be a pain in my assto deal with then I just drop that andthen I don't continue. Then for thesurvivors, um, once I have like a prettygood-look workflow, I'll test them allside by side, ask them to go do ascrape, and then once I've done thescrape, I can just compare and contrastresults. What's really sweet is when allthese things are done, I can sometimescombine the best of each, and then I cansay, "Hey, build a unified leadgeneration workflow that combines thebest of X, Y, and Z." And then it'll,you know, find 30% of leads with oneapproach, 30% of leads with the otherapproach, 30% of the leads with a thirdapproach, and so on and so forth.Anecdotally, it feels really cool to beable to manage and orchestrate this manysimultaneous builders. I don't usuallydo five at a time, but I just wanted todemonstrate that you can explore a verylarge search space in a very shortperiod of time. So, after a few minutes,these are now beginning to finish. Theone on the left hand side has tested thepipeline with a full batch. Just goingto take a peek. See, we've now generatedfour of these files. We then have ourpipeline summary, and now we just needto enter some API keys essentially. Now,the issue is I've yet to give it aGoogle Places API key or a Hunter APIkey. So, I'll just say, "Could you setup the Google API key for me?" I don'thave Hunter, but I do have an emailfinder. Please do this instead. Overhere, Apollo.Okay. And then one of these wanted asales navigator URL for HVAC companies.So, I'm just going to go HVAC. And thengeography. Why don't we just go Texasbecause I think that's what that was.Rest of this looks pretty reasonable.It's 4,000 results. I just want a reallyreally like simple one. So, I'm justgoing to go change jobs 54. That way, weshould only get 54. Go back here andthen I'll feed in the URL.I then see an Apollo API key. Yes,Apollo API key. It's then going to gothroughand give me instructions on one of myAPI keys. So, I'm going to head overhere to Google Places API. What I wantis the Places API new apparently. So,I'm going to enable this. And now it'sjust a process of getting API keys foreverything really.Copying the API key. Just going to pastethat in there. This is now testing. Thisis going to test. This is now testing.And then we just have these two overhere which are in the process ofbuilding. This here ran into an issuewith one of the scrapers. So, it'sdecided to pivot and then use an AppifyAPI token. That's cool. I don't mindthat. This here on the left is now doingsome debugging and so on and so forth.That's okay. I don't need to be a partof this. All I'm doing is I'm justoverseeing. And if any one of theseworkers needs me for anything, I'llprovide it. All right. And we are justtesting across the board. We got 50leads running for most of these tests.Some of them are 10. That's okay. I'mseeing this task over here is runninginto some issues. Namely, the Apollo APIkey that I provided earlier was for atotally free account. So, it doesn'tlook like I can it can actually go andenrich them. This one here on the leftlooks like it's pretty solid. So, it'ssince found a verified email address.That's pretty cool. I did uh no workhere. I just let it run. This over hereis doing a batch email scrape. And thisright over here is now running apipeline test with a fixed client. I'veactually forgotten what's going on overhere on the left. So I'll say describewhat is occurring top to bottom. So thisis scraping the Google Places API forterms like HVAC contractors, heatingcontractors. It's going across 50 Texand cities. Then it gives me a big listof leads. It's then enriching withemails before exporting to GoogleSheets. So, that's pretty cool. Let'srun this on a test of 50. Meanwhile,over here on the right, we did run it ona test of 50, and it looks like we endedup with 26 email addresses. That'spretty badass. I should note that notall of these are valid. I'm seeing hereone of them is for somebody that worksat Neurolink. So, probability of thatbeing a valid lead is kind of off. Um,I'm going to want to double check that.So, I'm going to go back here and I'llsay, I noticed one of the leads was forNeurolink. How are these filters? Arethey super accurate? Make sure to doublecheck. Meanwhile, this one over here onthe lefth hand side is doing someenrichment. This is now actually testingto see how many of these leads are HVACrelated. So, we're seeing a bunch ofthese are HVAC related. A bunch of theseare not HVAC related. So, uh the searchthat we're going to be providing here ispresumably going to have to be a littlebit more specific. I can't just like,you know, head over to LinkedIn SalesNav, copy and paste something with aterm HVAC, and then have it work 100% ofthe time. Okay. on the right hand side.This is now giving me some highlevelinstructions on how I can uh you know dothe search better. So that's nice. HVACand refrigeration equipmentmanufacturing. Why don't I actually goahead and just do this? So I'm going toremove this keyword HVAC. And what Iwant to do is click industry.Go down here.I see HVAC right over there. I'm goingto include that. This is 341 results. Sothen I'm just going to copy this andpaste this back in. Let's run a test on50. Cool. Cool. Cool. Looks like thislead flow here worked really well. 18out of 20 businesses had websites. 13out of 20 had emails. Meanwhile, wehappen to get Satia Nadella, the CEO ofMicrosoft's email over here. That'salways fun. Okay, cool. And now we havea whole list of steps right over here inthe middle. So, that's awesome. Gives mea brief description of what's going on.And yeah, I mean, I like this. So, whydon't I actually see a result? Where arethe leads? Looks like it's going to findme the leads. Text businesses withemails. Then it has them all over here.This is cool. So hopefully it's clear atthis point. I mean I could do prettymuch whatever I wanted, right? And likewe've actually gone through and exploreda tremendous amount of search space in avery short period of time. I could forinstance just um send the same messageto all five. Hey, show me the results ina Google sheet. You know, I could thenstandardize the test and just ask all ofthem to do 20 leads simultaneously andthen I could just have them reallyquickly test to see which one deliversme the highest degree of accuracy on theleads. Um I could also disqualify acouple. Don't really like this one. Imean like it it's working. It just foundme three. uh with verified emails, butI'm seeing that it's using an Apolloendpoint, which isn't 100% right. Umit's kind of crazy because we're notsupposed to be able to use Apollo inthis way. We should be having to pay afair amount of money. And you know, Ithink there are a lot of things thatrealistically anybody could do. Youcould also just use all five of these,but yeah, I just wanted to show you guyswhat that looks like. So, what I'm goingto do is I'm just going to pretend thatI've now selected three and I'm going tosay excellent. turn this into directivesor merge these directives executionswith the main branch your approach onethen update everything to ensure thatthe file paths etc are correct that'sactually really cool I wasn't expectingthis to do anything with Apollo um Imean I fed it in my API key which isfree but uh yeah normally they don'tallow you to see any of that and finallyit ended up finishing and it sincemerged my directives with the maindirectives folder. So I actually havethe Texas SOS Legen directly here. WhatI could do now is I could test it. Icould rerun it. I could optimize it byjust asking it to do things faster andfaster and faster. And yeah, I was ableto accurately assess that this is theflow that I wanted in light of fiveother ones. Total cost to this was nomore time than it would have taken me todo the first. Sure, I did spend some ofmy um in this case Claude Max planusage, although keep in mind that we'retalking cents on the dollar here. I alsospent a few dollars on Google PlacesAPI. You know, I would have spent a fewdollars over here. I spent a few HTTPcalls over here and then, you know, someAmpify tokens over here. Realisticallythough, this allows you to do 5x thetests for like just a couple of dollarsper workflow build. Way cheaper thananything um that N8, make.com or Zapierwould have charged you just for likedevelopment and testing costs alone. Andwe get to do it through self annealingand have a very robust reliable workflowto boot. So, how do you actually improvethese workflows over time? And when Isay this, I mean practically. Like, howdo you actually cut through the noiseand then do this thing in a way that isconsistent and reliable? Well, you justask. I actually literally just say, canyou make this faster? Can you make thischeaper? Over and over and over and overagain, like 30 times. I say, list 10approaches to make this thing cheaper.List 20 approaches to make this thingfaster. Most of the approaches will notwork, but I will use my human judgment.And then after it opens up and gives me20 possible opportunities, I then justpick one that I think makes the mostsense. And then we proceed with that.Then I just repeat the process over andover and over again until my workflow isnow significantly faster andsignificantly more optimized. That said,cuz I think a lot of people haveprobably stumbled on this, um, I do havea rule and my rule is the order ofmagnitude rule. I don't actually do thisanymore unless I can get at least a 10times improvement in a key metric. Forinstance, time, cost, or accuracybecause a workflow running in 3 minutesversus 2 minutes, well, technically it'sa 33% improvement or whatever, it's notactually meaningfully better for me. andthe amount of time that I take toimplement it multiplied by theintroduced error risk by doing what istypically an approach that trades offtime, money or accuracy for speedagainst each other means that I'musually losing. If you think about it,it's basically what's the metric wewant? We want like time, right? And sothe degree to which the time gets betteris sort of related to the degree towhich maybe the cost and the accuracy godown. And so the amount of time that Ispend on this I in addition to like theintroduced error rate and stuff likethis means that this only really makessense to do if there's a very clear pathto making your flow 10 times better.What's an example of this? Um I used toscrape tons of leads using a serialapproach and I found that it tookforever. My serial approach wassomething like you know 20 minutes for2k leads. If you do the math on thatthat's like I don't know 100 leads aminute or so. Um, I came through and Itried optimizing the hell out of theserial approach with like every way way,shape, and form that I could. I triedlike changing the compute that I wasusing. I tried changing like the Ampifyactors I was using. I tried changinglike the API requests that I was makingto Google Sheets and stuff like that.And I was only really able to get thisdown to maybe 15 minutes. That is like a25% improvement in time of course, but alot of the time this is even mybottleneck. Like it doesn't actuallymatter if it takes 15 minutes or 20minutes because I'm not utilizing theleads 100%. Anyway, what I ended upfinding was I ended up finding anapproach that batch parallelized them.So sent instead of um 2k leads for 20minutes, it basically sent 100 leads ata time 20 times and then it finished inapproximately 1 minute. Um this forexample is a 20 times improvement. Thisis something that I'd actually do. Umthat actually worked. But this wholelike I don't know this whole like uhdetour or rabbit hole thing was just atotal waste of my time because thisturned the flow into an unreliable mess.So my rule is I basically just like Idon't make small optimizations anymorebecause they reduce accuracy andreliability for marginal gains. I wouldonly do this on something that Iactually see there being an order ofmagnitude possible improvement. What aresome examples? It's like moving fromsoftware encoding to hardware encoding.You don't need to know what that means.Just make sure that when you ask themodel and you see words like that, it'slike okay, I should probably use thehardware encoding. Parallelizing orusing what's called like multiplethreads or using multiple serviceworkers simultaneously. These are thingsthat usually do provide like an order ofmagnitude jump. Um, sometimes you canlike fundamentally change the order ofoperations in a workflow. Uh, but ingeneral, unless the model expects thatthis is going to provide at least a 10xboost, I don't really recommend doingit. What is really cool is that everyworkflow that you build does become apermanent asset in your library. And Imean this both in the way of directivesand execution scripts as well. Yourlibrary ends up infinitely reusable. Ifyou think about it, you could open upany workspace in any IDE or agent model.You could also copy directives andexecution scripts over to anybody else'sworkspace like your friends or yourcolleagues. You could put it on GitHubwith like GitHub code spaces, somethingI'm going to talk about soon. You couldreuse automations the exact same waythat you do them in, you know, drag anddrop no code tools like naden, make.com,or gum loop, but you just do that withnatural language instead. Yourblueprints, if it makes sense now, isjust like a bunch of words on a page,which are much, much more portable. Andover time, your ID will become basicallya giant treasure chest that you candeploy anytime you want, anywhere youwant. So, for instance, what my librarycan do right now is it can do automatedlead scraping, automated emailenrichment, automated personal replieson campaigns that I run because we'repredominantly like a cold email agency.I can initiate high quality voice agentcalls. I literally just say, "Hey, callthis person. Hey, I want you to callpeople on this list. Hey, I want you tosplit to like 20 20 uh threads and thencall 20 people." I could do automatedproposal generation. I could do slidedeck creation that actually matches mytone of voice and it looks pretty good.Um, and all of it is customized to how Icommunicate. It is not generic AI slop.Um, so it's pretty cool. Obviously, Ididn't build all this stuff overnight.It took me a fair amount of time, fewdays, well, a few weeks now to really uhput the finishing touches on all these.But yeah, I mean, at the end of the day,this thing can basically be yourterminal for life. A real example frommy actual day-to-day was automating myschool posts. So, I kept forgetting topost a weekly community call thread. Idid it three weeks in a row, which isreally embarrassing, especially becauseI uh like to make it clear that if Idon't do like the foundationalfundamental things that I promise peopleI will do, then why why the hell am Ientitled to their money? So, I gave abunch of people refunds. Um, I asked myagent, Claude Opus 4.5, at the time ifautomating this was straightforward. Ihad never even really thought of thisbefore, but I was basically just like,"Hey, I keep forgetting about thisthing. Man, I really suck. Any ideas?"And then it's just like, "Oh, yeah, wecould totally automate that." So, itwent and found a reex uh pre-existingschool system that I had built um whichjust handled like the authentication andthe logging in. Then it built a simplescraping spec and it figured it out inlike 3 minutes flat and I automated myschool post in 3 minutes flat using asimple schedule