me the highest priorityonesover here? We now need to restart theGmail MCP server. So, I'm just going torestart cloud code. The new O flowshould capture a refresh token. Let meknow once you've completed the browserauthentication and then I will startagain. Cool. So, I'm going to do is I'llgo new. Just going to go /mcp.We'll say offmy MCP, off my Gmail MCP.Over here on the right hand side, yousee some people have asked somequestions. So, Emil's asked somequestions about client delivery whenyou're offering a lead genen system. Forhow long should you sign up the clientfor and how long can you keep onproviding new leads for the company? Forhow long are you guys typically runningcampaigns for clients? On average, I runcampaigns for a minimum of 90 days. Ididn't used to do this, but I found that90 days was sort of the sweet spot as ittypically takes some stopping andstarting before you figure out the rightoffer combination and the right leadtargeting. When I started, I wentmonth-to-month entirely. I'd probablyrecommend that in your case just to keepfriction low, but hopefully this helpsgive you an understanding of the variousways that you could put something likethis together. And we have anotherquestion here about 400 bucks. Well,first off, nice job on the 400 bucks.the JSS score tanking is hard to hear.My recommendation would be to send him amessageletting him know that immediately afteryou finished your contract, you had amassive JSS dump. This is somethingabout Upwork. And softly implying thatthis will unfortunately have seriousconsequences as to your ability to getfuture work. I would also ask him ifthere's something or anything that youcan do to improve that job successscore, whether it's going back andproviding free or additional work etc.It looks like on the third he put somecopy together. So I'm just going to sayshow me the copy.Cool. And now this is going to gothrough top to bottom and then send thatinfo. What's cool is this also formatsmy text for me. So I can just dump allthis in. It's now going to authenticate.So I'm just going to head over to myemail. Looks like it's successful. So Ican go back here. This looks prettysolid. I would probablyremove thejust because this doesn't offer a lot ofvalue. If you work withsomebody in your niche, I wouldrecommend that.This is usually considered positivesocial proof. The would you be open to a15-minute call about this as the lastquestion is a little weak. I wouldprobably be hyper specific with thetimes that I'm asking for. I.e. couldyou do?Okay, over here on the left hand side wehave the Gmail MCP. So I'll just saysend mea hello email to nicholas@gmail.com.Over here we have the output of ouragent. So let's take a look at this.Looks like it's saying that a lot ofthese are related to ICE agents, whichis sort of a political thing that'sgoing on right now, which is why we'regetting these outliers. Obviously,that's not, you know, that's not whatI'm going to be doing. I really careabout looking for those outliers, but Ido see some of these are more agentrelated. So, a agents that actually workthe pattern anthropic just revealed. Wehave the thumbnail right over here.That's cool. Google Workspace Studiobetween these two. Sam Alman lookingquite menacing.These are pretty funny, honestly. Uh,cool. Yeah. So, I have some reasonableoutliers here, which is nice. Um, youknow, I'm probably not going to be ableto do the political ones, and I'm notreally making content like that ortalking head, so I can avoid those. Buthopefully you guys see that, you know,now I have some outliers that I couldwork with that have just been releasedin the last few days. Um, but, you know,maybe I could start modeling my contentaround or something like that.Meanwhile, the MCP now works. So, we didfix that. And then I've also sent threeum messages within school. So, I'm justgoing to take a little peek at that.Cool. also just sent that just sent thatand then right over here just said thatand you can see it's also formatted mytext for me and stuff like that. Okay,so I don't do this because I think anyof these three particular ones that I'mrunning are super powerful or superincredible or whatever, but these arejust things that I had to do today, youknow, and I just figured I would runthrough them with you guys. Um, this islike a practical look at this theday-to-day work that I do within myAgentic Workflow IDE. Um, and hopefullyyou guys see how this is a very simpleand easy way to like multiply yourleverage, right? I mean, I just did likea whole endto-end workflow for uh,admittedly a demo client, but a democlient nonetheless on the lefth handside. In the middle, I ran like outlierdetector and on the right hand side, Ieven interacted and engaged with schoolposts much faster than I could domanually. Um, that auto automaticallyformatted my text, found like goodquestions for me to answer and so on andso forth. You guys can use AgenticWorkflows in your ID in the exact sameway for whatever the knowledge work isthat you need to do. Whether you'recopyrighting campaigns, whether you'rescraping leads, whether you're just likeorganizing your CRM or adding things toa record, like it is now entirelypossible. And I hope you guys also seethat there is a split between thebuilding of a workflow and then theusing of the workflow. The building issomething you do once and then the usingis an opportunity to make a return oninvestment on the building time over andover and over and over again basicallyevery day. I don't really think it's afar cry to say that most people couldprobably automate 50% or more of theirday-to-day work using flows like thisand at minimum at least make it 50% moreenjoyable or easier to do. So, next Iwant to talk a little bit about subagents. Why sub agents? Because contextwindows fill up really, really quickly.Most people don't realize this, butcurrent models have a context window ofaround 200,000 to around 1 milliontokens in certain instances. And thatsounds like a lot, but when you addtools, all of this context disappearsmuch faster than you would think.Specifically, detail oriented tasks burnthrough context really quickly becauseof that loop that I was telling youabout. Debugging burns through contextvery quickly because of the loop I wastalking to you about. Any sort of MCPsburn through context really quickly. Andbefore you know it, half of your wholecontext window of let's say 500,000tokens or something is filled withintermediate garbage that significantlyreduces the probability of a successfuloutput. Now, this phenomenon wherethere's a bunch of garbage in yourcontext window and that leads to poorquality outputs is called contextpollution. And pollution is essentiallywhere that intermediate memory, thatsort of midterm memory that I talkedabout way back at the beginning of thecourse, gets cluttered with a bunch ofirrelevant noise. Now, scientists havebeen working with these models for quitea while. As I may have mentioned to youat some point in the past, AI modelsthese days are more grown than they arebuilt. And so, it's very much like anatural phenomenon that we are testing.And what they've found is consecutivelyacross thousands and thousands andthousands of tests, the more tokens in acontext window, typically the poorer thequality is. And the relationship lookssomething like this.And the reason it looks like this isbecause over here on the very left handside, you probably have zero tokens,right? And so if it's fresh and you askit to do something with no context orwhatever, it'll do an okay job. If youadd a bunch of context and you tell it,hey, you know, I'd like you to do this.Here are a couple of examples of pastinstances of this run correctly. Uhhere's a bunch of context. Here's abunch of links and whatever. Performanceactually goes up in the short term. Whatyou'll notice is as you go on and on andon and you start filling it with more,you know, irrelevant garbage andwhatnot, performance and quality andoutputs go down a lot. Now, back in theday with GPT2 and GPT3 when I wasstarting 1 second copy in my contentwriting business, you know, this wassuper super important and it was soimportant that I actually trained all ofmy writers not to use more than 256tokens at a time. So, imagine that wehad to stick under 256 tokens with ourprompt. Essentially, if we went any overthat, we found um quality went off acliff. In our case, now we can usesignificantly more than 256 tokens.Obviously, this point here is probablysomewhere closer to like 10k or so, not256. So, we're sort of blessed in thatway. But still, there is thatrelationship between more stuff in thecontext window and then poor quality.So, we need to make sure that uh youknow, if all else is held equal, we tryand minimize the amount of tokens in ourcontext as much as possible. Now that weunderstand that, onto sub aents. The waythat sub agents solve this is throughisolation of context. Now the idea is inorder for something to be a sub aent andnot a part of the main agent, it getsits own fresh clean context window towork in. So all you do with a sub agentis basically you give it a task. You letit do all the messy work in its ownspace and then you return only therelevant findings. So just as a quicklittle demonstration here, let's saythis is a chat back and forth with youand you know your agent. So this is youover here. This is your agent over here.Any every time you ask it something, itsends something back and so on and soforth. Imagine what happens every timeyou send a call. Essentially what isoccurring is we stack up all of these.And so our total context, if you thinkabout it, is that block up there plusthis block over here plus that blockover here plus that block over here plusthat block over here. So how many blocksis this? We're just counting. That'sfive blocks. And let's say everyone's athousand words. You're actually sendinglike a,000 words. So what that means ison the next query, what we're doing iswe're sending a total of five blocks ofcontext plus the thing that we asked. Somaybe 6,000 in total. What sub aentsallow you to do is instead of doing thisum you know having this 1,000 here,let's pretend that this over here isactually a sub aent loop. What we do iswe actually just eliminate thiscompletely. Okay, and then we eliminatethat completely. And so what ends uphappening is basically the model insteadof storing the results directly in thecontext, okay, only stores the outputsof that response. So all we're reallydoing to make a long story short is weask the sub agent to do something. Itdeals with all of that stuff sort ofinternally in its own head and then justspits us out a brief summary plus theresults that we asked for. If you guysare keen, you'll notice that this isvery similar to how reasoning tokens getdiscarded after use to keep the totaltoken countdown. Remember how there'sthat sort of like thinking tab and youcan open up the thinking tab if you wantto see what's kind of going on under thehood. Well, those tokens aren't actuallyadded to what I talked about here. Thosetokens disappear. So, it's the exactsame thing. Whether it's reasoning,whether it's sub aents, both of thesestrategies are meant to reduce the totalamount of stuff and garbage pollutingthe context window. And the data backsthis up. Anthropic, a company that sortof not coined sub aents, but isdefinitely the leading force behind themwith clawed code. Um, it ran a testwhere opus was the lead and then opusessentially controlled a bunch of subaents and had those sub aents do avariety of smaller tasks beforereporting back their findings. And itfound that it outperformed single agentopus by over 90% on research. basedtasks. Now, I should note that'sresearch, right? Not all tasks areresearch related. Obviously, researchinvolves a ton of tokens. And so, subagents here obviously did way betterthan they probably do on most othertasks relative to, you know, thestandard. But, there are somecircumstances where sub agents doperform significantly better even inday-to-day use. And that's why I'mtalking about it. You'll know that I uhI really haven't really given a crapabout sub agents or anything like that.This is a very recent phenomenon for me.People have been talking about subagents for the better part of the lasttwo years. And every time they are like,"Nick, why aren't you using sub aents orwhatever?" I'm always like, "Becauseit's pointless." Like sub agents as anarchitectural addition just complicatethings. They don't actually make thingseasier. Models for the most part canhandle tasks on their own. It's okay.You don't need to like, you know, tryand develop some big fancy framework.Well, model intelligence has gotten tothe point where we can actually make useof these things now. So long as you'renuanced and kind of smart about how youdo it. So the catch between this isthere's implementation complexitybecause you are now inserting your ownbiases and how you think the modelshould operate. Then you're alsocompounding errors. What do I mean bycompounding errors? I mean, you know, ifyou think about it, there's a step herewhere in order for my parent agent tosend something off to a child or subagent, it needs to summarize what it isthat it wants the sub agent to do. Andso that right there is a step. And thatstep might be like 99% accurate. But aswe know, if you have a bunch of thingsthat are 99% accurate, if you add enoughsteps into the process, eventually thatturns out into something that is muchless than 99% accurate, right? It mightbe like uh I think my example was 99.9%stretched out over a,000 tasks was 36%accuracy at the end of it. So you knowthe more uh steps you have likesummarization steps sending to this thisdoes some summarization sends back themore area you're inserting in theprocess and the higher the variabilityis. So basically what you need to do isyou just need to find a situation wherethe added error as a result of theadditional steps is outweighedessentially by the beneficial effect onthe context. And there's no realnon-trivial way to know this right offthe top of your head. Like you need totest this. You need to try this. Nowsince I've tested this and trying this,my recommendation is to stick to two subaent types for now. And there's in inparticular just two that I'm going totalk about. Before I tell you what thosetwo are, the other two big wins from subagents are there's context management.Your main agent will stay super cleanand it'll only have things that arehighly relevant to what it is that wewant. So let's say you delegate to abunch of sub aents that have MCP access.Those sub aents are the ones that loadup all the context and other MCP. Thenthey do the job and then they reportback. If your sub aents are atomicenough, obviously we can do that overand over and over again and we canactually make some real headway withoutpolluting the context window. The secondis parallelization. So sub aents canactually run all simultaneously. Whatyou'll find when you delegate to subagents like I'll show you later is asingle agent can spawn multiple and thenthose multiple basically all run ontheir own and report back wheneverthey're individually finished. So ifyou've ever seen, you know, Gemini orClaude sort of do research, typicallywhat'll occur is it'll spin up, youknow, three or four research sub aentsbecause that's native to theirarchitecture and they're basically justgoing to wait until all three or four ofthese are completed. But these don'toccur top down. It's not like thisfinishes first, this finishes second,this finishes third, this finishesfourth. These are all individualprocesses. So this one might finishfirst and report back. This one couldfinish second, this one could finishthird, and this one could finish fourth.It's a very interesting phenomenon thatyou guys have probably seen but notfully understood where that comes fromyet. A good example of thatparallelization is if you want to scrapea bunch of leads. I do tons of leadscraping, hence why it's always myexample. But um you know, you don't needto scrape all these one by one. Youdon't need to scrape, let's say, 30,000independently through some big serialthing. You can actually just have yourparent agent, okay, spin up three subaents and maybe every sub agent itselfuses some form of parallelization to doa task. And so now what you're doing,and I know this sounds really fancy,you're probably like, does it actuallywork? Now what you're doing is you'rebasically just cutting the total amountof time it takes to do this thing down.And then what what occurs is once theseare all done, okay, if you kind of likecheck mark these, they report theirresults back to the main agent. Then themain agent's task is really justconsolidating these, putting themtogether, which if you think about itlike the act of I don't know stitchingtogether three lists of things is a loteasier of a task to ask a parent agentthan you know actually going through theorchestration of scraping that manyleads. If something previously takes 3hours sequentially with the spin up, theuh scraping and then the wind down. Thismight only take 30 minutes in parallelbecause you are consolidating thosefixed costs uh in terms of spin up andthen wind down and then your parentagent just gets the results. In terms oflike the technical and logistical bitswhere sub aents live, they're defined asmarkdown files. Exact same thing as thedirectives. Nothing really differenthere. Uh in clawed code specifically,they're included/aents. So this is a tople folder withanother folder underneath it. And thenif you want to go global as in have thataccessible like across your entireproject directory, then you put it inyour current directory. Claude/ aents.The disambiguation there isn't superimportant. If you want sub agents toonly have access to a specific workspaceor project, this is how you do it. Butif you wanted to have access toeverything, uh then you'd put it overhere and that way sub agents can workacross your workspaces. Now, otheragenda coding tools do follow similarpatterns. There is no consensus, atleast not as of the time of thisrecording, how Gemini is organizing itssub aents, how Codeex and so on and soforth are organizing their sub aents.But rest assured, everybody has theirown little framework and it's all aboutlike the system prompt, right? You canabsolutely just have these models spinup the equivalent of the claw codeversion of sub aents. It's just a matterof doing a little bit more heavy liftingup front. The anatomy of