do is literally just a folderstructure plus a system prompt. Andpretty much all frameworks out thereright now for aentic workflows are allwe do is we just set up a folder calleddirectives and a folder calledexecution. Then we add some files likean agents MD, cloud MD or Gemini MD asour prompt and then you know we mightadd avi keys etc. Again, the API uh envis literally just a convention that, youknow, some programmers made forever ago.So, it's great for beginners primarilybecause it's intuitive and it's reallyeasy to understand. And it's also reallycool for businesses because we can justcopy and paste SOPs directly in like uma company that I'm currently workingwith right now does marketingspecifically for dental practices andthey do about $2 million a year. Andwhen I introduced agentic workflows tothem, you know, I'm kind of like in ameeting I met with the director and Istarted discussing how, hey, you know, Ithink we could probably automate acouple of the previously non-automatabletasks with aentic workflows, he's like,okay, so how do we start? And I was justlike, well, you guys got a knowledgebase. Why don't I just feed the entireknowledge base in and see what happens?And within 15 minutes or so, we hadactually like procedurally turned mostof those things into agentic workflows.We had all of the the API keys. We hadeverything that we needed preset whichwas lucky cuz a lot of the time you haveto jump around and you know finaglevarious services. Um but yeah within 15minutes we had turned this into doughand we now have a workspace that youknow the director managers and myselfcan use to do like 90% of theeconomically valuable work. Is thatgoing to lead to some headcountreduction? Probably. I mean when youautomate 90% of 10,000 people's rolesobviously you need to take a step backand start doing more management stylestuff than actually getting your handsdirty. Uh but yeah, that's just a verysimple and straightforward example ofsomething that I have actually just justnow done. The reason why dough worksreally is because of the wholestochasticity idea. And stochasticityjust for anybody that's like why theheck is Nick using all of these crazywords. It's just the way to formalizerandomness I would say. I mean it's alittle bit different but for for ourpurposes you could use that. So it justtakes this big like if this is like thetotal range of possible outcomes. Okay?You know you could do uh this outcomeyou could do outcome somewhere here. Youcould do this outcome you could dooutcome somewhere here. All DO does isit just reduces this so that the rangeof possible outcomes is a lot morenarrow. And so, you know, for the mostpart, we're operating within a verytightly bounded range of possibleoutcomes for our system. It can do thisor it could do that. And it's very, verysimilar uh because we do this throughthe separation of concerns. It's just alot more reliable. This lets me get to 2to 3% error rates on a lot of businessfunctions. That dental uh marketingbusiness that I was talking aboutearlier is a great example of that. It'sreally not more complicated than that. Ialso like to think of it as I don't knowif you guys have ever gone bowling orsomething, but uh this is going to be mycrappybowling pin thing. Um you know,typically the way that bowling works isyou have gutters on the side and youknow if your bowling ball is not verygood or if you are not very good atbowling I should say. Um you know like alot of the time it's going to veer offinto the gutter and then you're screwed,right? So as a total newbie, one thingthat I really like doing is I likeasking them to set up the guardrails. SoI say, "Hey, do you mind setting up theguardrails for me?" Then they set upthese little guardrails that basicallyprevent the ball from um landing. And sowhat ends up happening is I basicallywill bump off of a wall and then I stillget to hit some pins. That's all doughis for agents. It just constrains it. Wejust give it some guardrails and then wesignificantly improve the probabilitythat it does something that we want. SoI'm going to go very into detail hereand be very comprehensive because thisis the framework we're using for therest of the program. You've already seenme use this a bunch through the variousdemos that I've I've created. Now I justwant to provide context for everything.If some of this stuff is repetitive orif you think you already know thisstuff, that's okay. I would recommendjust watching it regardless. Try andinternalize as much of this as possiblebecause this is the same idea that anyframework uh is going to use. So thedirectives obviously are SOPs written innatural language as markdown files.Markdown is very important. File endingall will end in MD. That's obviouslystands for markdown. Uh and generallyspeaking, this is just a sort of likemarkup language.A markup language just formats text. Sothis is plain text for instance, right?First SOPs are written in naturallanguages as markdown files. Uh uh uhyou know marked up version of this mightbe first. Let me make sure I got thisright. You had some stars. SOPs and nowthis is bolded text are written in youknow natural language. And so now it'slike quoted text as markdown files. Whatwe're doing is we're taking text andthen we're just marking it up. We'readding some structure to it basically.Um markdown is just one way to do so.So, for instance, this on a page isactually markdown underneath it. Um, Iused markdown to help uh I used AIactually to help me convert a big17,000word document into um a slideshow.And so, this was actually a heading. Andthe way you demonstrate or the way youuse headings in markdown is you uselittle number signs. So, for instance,if I wanted to write this big heading, Iactually would have written this layerone, you know, directives.Underneath that, you have bullet points.Bullet points in markdown are littlestars. So star first, you know, s os arewritten, right? So all of these littlecharacters are just a ways that you addformatting to text. And the reason whywe do this for our AI agent fordirectives is because formatting allowsus to add a lot moreformational contentto the text. It also allows us tostructure things. So it's not just onegiant massive text dump. We add we getto add new lines. We get to add varioustabs for indentation. Basically, we justadd a bunch of structure to things asopposed to it just being this, right? webasically convert it into something thatis a lot more interesting. We havespaces and we have little bullet pointsand you know the structure of the textkind of looks like a face funnily enoughyou know allows us to impart a lot moreinformation per token and then it's alsotoken efficient. There are othermarkdown languages as well. One thatyou've probably heard of before is ormarkup languages as well. One thatyou've probably heard before is calledHTML. With HTML the way you mark thingsup is you use a variety of tags. And sotags are these little number signthings. If I were to try and write thesame thing in tags, it would besignificantly less token efficient andso I'd actually have written way more umtotal tokens, which obviously would haveconsumed a lot of my context. So insteadof that, okay, instead of the HTML body,H1 layer 1 directives, H1, whatever, allwe're doing to to accomplish the samething is I literally just do a numbersign. Obviously, this is one character.That's like, I don't know, however manycharacters, way more, obviously, to justum demonstrate some some structurethere. Okay, so that's markdown. Now,these define your goals. They defineyour inputs. They define your tools,your expected outputs, edge cases, andultimately a lot of other things thatyou can define. I don't proclaim to havethe perfect directive creationstructure. I'm going to show you my owndirective creation structures, and thattends to include all these things, butum in general, you just want to providehighle overviews. Now, the way I writethese or the way I have AI write theseis I write them like I'd instruct acompetent employee. I would make themclear, but I would not micromanage. Andreally, AI does this for you. All I dois I describe the what and the highlehows of my task in markdown and then Ijust trust the agent to figure out therest. I'm going to remember to drinkthis tea cuz it is going to get cooled.Damn, that stuff's good. Holy.So directives obviously live in thedirectives folder in our workspace. Theway I separate each directive is as aseparate markdown file that covers oneworkflow or one capability. Forinstance, I would have a scrape_leads.MD file, but I wouldn't have a runbusiness MD file just because, and maybewe'll get to this point later, I don'tknow, but um just because this is a lotthat we're asking from the model. And sothe model typically starts looping overand and doesn't really understandvarious edge cases and stuff like that.I constrain these into sort of likemodular directives. And then later on Ican actually group them with umbrelladirectives. Not umbrella to the pointwhere it's literally like hey run my ownbusiness but umbrella to the point whereit's like hey you know run onboardingflow or something like that. So someexamples lead scraping MD proposalgeneration MD email_enrichment MD and soon and so forth. I highly recommendmaking the names descriptive. Logicallyspeaking these are the only things thatuh descriptives descriptive um this isthe only way that like the model cantell kind of what's going on here. Youcan of course add um some other forms ofstructure to the text. You could addwhat's called YAML front matter, whichI'll talk about a little bit more lateron. But for the most part, like themodel just consumes the name and thenuses that name to determine whichworkflows it's going to use. If I say,"Hey, I want you to scrape some leads,"obviously it's going to do the leadscraping one, right? But if I justcalled that L_S with somenaming convention, it would have no ideawhat it's doing. So very important hereto just like be descriptive. Don't useacronyms. Don't use anything that likecomplexifies the names of the directivesif you want the agent to be able to useit as best it can.Very important point is that directivescontain no code at all. There is zerocode within a directive. All directivesare are natural language instructions.We don't have any code, no executables.And really there's there's very littletechnical here. You know, I may [snorts]include some URLs. I say, "Hey, go tothis URL in order to get informationabout this." But I'll never actuallyinclude any sort of code or executable.The reason why is because we want thesedirectives to remain readable by allhumans within the organization. And theyshould just make sense to all peoplewithin the company. If your directivesare to the point where they're sotechnical and confusing that like any,you know, average low-level staff memberwithin the business could not read itand understand what's going on, you'vescrewed up. The whole idea is that youwant to lower the barriers to entry sothat anybody in your company that issystem-minded, they don't have to betechnical, but they have to know systemscan actually just improve things. You belike, "Oh, um, yeah, take a look at thatdirective and let me know if there'sanything that you think I'm missing."And then they just read it naturallanguage and they go, "Oh, you know, uh,sometimes customers ask for X, Y, and Z.We should probably add some logicthere." Right? You want that person toactually be able to substantiallyimprove the organization. You don't justwant it to be like a black box. Becausethat's one of the main benefits of this,right? We're making this really, reallyinterpretable. removing bottlenecksacross the organization to have peoplesee and understand how uh the systems inthe business work. Okay, so next upwe're going to talk about layer twowhich is orchestration. This is kind oflike the who. Um orchestration isbasically a competent project manager.So a good project manager in businessrarely actually does the hands-on workthemselves. They're basically just likea nexus and that nexus takes informationin and then it kind of puts informationout. And you know this might be personone, person two, person three. They'regoing to take inputs from these threesources. They're going to do somethinking and then they're ultimatelygoing to go and delegate some additionalwork to person 1 2 and 3. So they makerouting decisions at the end of the dayand they take advantage of availabletools. If you think about old school nocode flows like NAD and stuff like that,this job was basically done by you andyou would orchestrate it once when youbuilt the flow. You'd say this node goesto this node, this node goes to thatnode, that node goes to that node, thatnode goes to that node. Maybe this thingloops around a little bit and theneventually we, you know, do this node orsomething like that. This is a decisionthat you would make once when you builtthe flow. What's really cool is theorchestrator basically just does all ofthat on its own. So if I just show youguys as like a practical example here,the orchestratorinstead just compiles all the tools andthen at runtime it decides, hey, youknow, I actually want to do this andthen this is actually going to go overhere. After that's done, it's going togo over here. That's going to go overhere. We're going to loop back threetimes over there, start over here, andthen we'll finish over here. And becauseit's flexible, it can adapt to anysituation at the time that you areasking it to do things. You just give ittools and then it just does all therouting and stuff like that for you.Obviously, we want to provide at leastsome structure, right? We don't want tojust give it a bunch of tools and say,"Hey, figure it out." That's what ourdirectives are for. So, it does ensurework gets completed according to those.But the flexibility here allows it todeal with situations like when somethingbreaks, how to diagnose the problemrather than just crash and and you know,404. And then later on if you use subaents like I recommend throughout theprogram um we're going to have like adocument flow that not only will gothrough see uh workflow end to end ifthere's any problems it'll diagnose itand so on and so forth it'll actually goback and it'll document for the purposesor rather the benefits of futureinstances of the agent um you knowchanges that it made things that youknow the agent needs to keep in mindlogical errors that you know maybeagents typically make to avoid APIexceptions that don't really make senseor work and so on and so forth.All right, layer three is execution,which is the how. So, logicallyspeaking, execution is deterministic.It's very modular. It's verystraightforward. Doesn't mean it'ssimple. The execution scripts are storedin the execution folder. I typicallyjust use Python for this. Why? Cuz theprogramming language doesn't reallymatter to be honest. And when you havePython, like at any point in time, ifyou needed to, you could convert thisinto whatever the heck you want. You canconvert Python into Rust, you canconvert uh into Node, you could convertit into Java. I mean, like whateverlanguage you want really. These thingsare all [snorts] essentially justconversions of natural language at thispoint. Anyway, each script handles justone thing. So, one job or one task. I'llgive you an example just using what wetalked about earlier. So, if I have likea scrape leads directive, this is likethe highle kind of workflow. Right? Now,this workflow isn't just going to haveone, you know, scrape_leads.pyscript. This might actually havemultiple different scripts. This mighthave uh you know depending on whateveryou're using might be likescrape_appify.pymight have like a upload to gsh sheet.pyhell might even have if you have to makesome interface or something presentto user.py.But the point is these things all justdo one thing really well. So this onescrapes appy really well. This oneuploads to a Google sheet really well.This one presents to a user really well.These are just like things that you knowyou like like tools that an agent canuse in order to do some task. So whathappens is because they'redeterministic, they do the exact samething every time when given the sameinputs. So like if I were just to Idon't know do this raw dog it and justfeed in some prompt to my agent and say,"Hey, I want you to scrape aify for X,Y, and Z." And I had no tools and nodirectives, you know, it wouldeventually figure out what I wanted todo. But if I did it 10 times, you know,on route one, it would go from hereto here and then on route two would feedback and route three, you know, we justhave fundamentally different umexecutions every single time, right?When you have the exact same inputsprovided to the exact same executionscripts and then you get the exact sameoutputs, it becomes very obvious likewhat the model needs to do and youheavily constrain the inputs and outputsuh and you essentially just provide asimple rule. Hey, you know, if I say,hey, scrape appy or whatever, uh, forTexas, uh, for 200 people, it'llactually feed that in as a parameter tothe scrape appy. It'll actually likehave dash dash, you know, locationequals Texas, for instance, and then d-um, you know, amount equals 200 orsomething like that. And because we arebeing extraordinarily explicit here,there's never any misunderstanding. So,the agent just always knows what toexpect. So, do you. Another example herewould be a scrape_apollo. That wouldscrape leads from Apollo, but maybe youalso enrich the leads. Well, now youhave enrich_clearb. Maybe that enrichescompany data via that tool. Maybe youthen have a send email that sends emailsvia specified service and then a createpandock which generates proposals. Whatyou'll quickly realize is when you builda sufficient enough library of tools,you can have multiple directivesreference the same tools. Like forinstance the send email pi maybe as partof my scrape_leads.mmddirective I always send an email with asummary of the leads right so maybe youknow somewhere here I say hey you knowgenerate the the leads scrape it withapolla and then send an email well whatabout the create panadoc maybe in thecreate panadoc uh maybe I have like agenerate proposal MD well the generateproposal MD um also needs to send anemail what's really cool is when youdefine these atomic functions Both ofthese can call the same executionscript. And because we've optimized thehell out of these execution scripts byrerunning and self- annealing and allthis stuff, which we'll talk aboutlater, um, this is really robust and itbasically