targetmarket before doing the full scrape.When you're done, enrich missing emailsusing a secondary service like anymailinder. Then add everything to asharable Google sheet and send me thelink." Pretty straightforward and prettysimple, huh? All right, let me show youa practical demo. All right, let's buildanother agentic workflow together. Thisone I want to be a lead generation orlead scraping workflow. You guys mighthave seen me build these sorts of thingsbefore on my channel. I love buildingthem because they are so high leveragerelative to what I used to have to doback in the day. So, I figured I'd justbring you guys alongside me for uh oneof the new lead scraping workflows thatI'm going to put together. So, the firstthing I'm going to do, just like Ialways do, is I'm going to give it innatural language a set of instructionsto club. I'm using a voice transcriptiontool. So, I'll say, "Hey, I'd like tobuild a lead generation workflow thatscrapes publicly available informationto get me a list of B2B leads. What arethe three best approaches for this?"Now, I kind of know what I want to dohere, but I want to show you guys howyou can use an agent, not only as somebuilder, but also as something to assistyou with the ideation. So what this issaying is we could start by using aLinkedIn sales navigator or similartools to identify decision makers bytitle, industry, company size, thenenrich with contact data via APIs. Thatsounds pretty good to me. So I'm goingto need some additional tool. That'sokay.Let's go with the first. I think I'veheard of a few different tools we coulduse to do this. Phantom Buster is one.There's another one called Vain. Whichdo you think is best for our approach?How should we go about this exactly? So,it's now going through and it'sperforming a bunch of research on thesetools. Okay, now it's gone throughperformed a bunch of research on all ofthe tools that we could use and it sincerecommended me a uh a pipeline. So, thatsounds awesome. I really like this. Whydon't I say let's do it. Yes, I alreadyhave a sales navigator subscription.Let's do it. Build out a pipeline. Ialso already have a pre-existingsubscription to any MailFinder, which isan enrichment tool. So, why don't we usethat as part of our flow? I want you tobuild this using the DO framework. Letme know if you need anything.So now what we've done is we'vebasically takenour demand or our request I should sayand then we've paired it down into amuch higher probability build path umjust based off a couple of back andforth questions. If you think about it,the total amount of time that it takesan agent to build something is prettyshort, all things considered, but it'sstill like five or 10 or 15 minutes. Ifyou screw up and you go down the wrongpath, in order for you to walk back andstart fresh, you're probably going tohave to spend another 10 or 15 minutesin order to have the agent rebuild thenext thing. And so, at a very highlevel, giving it a tiny bit of inputinitially is super powerful, and it'salso a big time saver. So, I usuallyrecommend going back and forth at leasta little bit while it does its searches.and you know use your own humanknowledge really to pair down the totalum possible number of paths. So it'sgoing through building a Google SheetsLinkedIn lead genen lead enrichmentpipeline and any mailfinder clientpipeline. All right, once it's almostdone all of the scripts, it's going tocreate a directive just to tieeverything together. Do all this for me.Okay, I'm now having it wrap things up.We can now start giving it a test.Obviously, it is one thing if a modeltells you that it is good to go. It's acomplete other thing um whether or notthe flow actually works. So, we alwayshave to verify that the flow works withwith a real test. Okay, it's now testingout any mailinder, testing out theGoogle Sheets connection.Looks like it found an issue with theway that it was going to do theconnection. I added a credentials.jsonfile here just from another workspace,which is basically like an ooth thing.Um I didn't generate this thing. I hadthe model generate it for me. It's nowgoing to ask to authenticate for thefirst time. Anytime you connect to a newGoogle credential with OOTH, you'regoing to have to do this. Now I have thebrowser authentication. I'm just goingto pump over here and connect this. Thisis a great opportunity for me to pointout a common issue that people have withthe Gentic workflows. It's where they umessentially have the model generate atest case for them. So in this case,that's what's occurring here.Test_leads.csv.It then uses the test data essentiallyto test end to end to see whether or notthe flow works. That's not good enoughbecause if you think about it, the modeljust created a bunch of scripts. So thetest case that it will come up with ismost likely going to be in the sameformat that all of the rest of thescripts and so on and so forth expect.What's way more informative is for usjust to do this entirely based off newdata. So that's what I'm going to donext. I don't really want to export theleads from Vain. I instead want you todo all that for me.Okay. And it looks like it now is readyfor a test. So I just need to give it asales marketing or a sales navigator URLanyway and it'll do everything or Icould run it myself with one command.That's cool. Um what I'm going to do isI'll just go back to LinkedIn sales navhere and I have a link. Basically whatwhat happens on LinkedIn when you wantto find something like a list of peopleis you need to generate a search on thelefth hand side. Now you just need tocopy over the URL and then just paste itin. So I'm just going to paste this inand I'm just going to see what happens.We'll just test it in 10. All right. Andnow it has found 231 prospects. So it'sgoing to go through and scrape the 231profiles via vein. Then enrich with anymailinder before exporting to GoogleSheets. Okay, it had some issues with aparticular API call uh to Vain. It sinceself-annealed and automatically fixed itall. So it's just continuing down thebuilding process on that first run. OnceI have it finished this first run, I'mjust going to ask it to do a second run.And I'm going to do it completely fromscratch. So it's going to be like a coldstart. I'm going to instantiate a freshcloud instance, one that has no ideawhat the heck's going on. Then we'll seehow it goes. Okay, one of the outputswas buffered. That just means that uhbasically it was in a loop repeating. SoI just paused it and said how are wedoing? Looks like it's still running. SoPython is buffering the output. We'rejust going to wait for the completion.Sometimes some of these tool calls cantake a fair bit and that's what'shappening with any mailfinder. Thereason why this is actually good for usis because I get to show you guys lateron what it looks like to optimize aworkflow realistically. And I know thisbecause I've done a fair amount ofenrichment at this point. You do notneed to take this long to enrich 200records. You could probably enrich 200records in maybe like 15 seconds or sothrough bulk requests. Um the first timethat a agent ever builds a workflow,it's going to do so in as simple a wayas humanly possible. Typically throughserial requests, which just means thatit's sending one request at a time,waiting until the request is done, thensending another request after that. Butwhat you can do with a lot of workflowsis you can parallelize them, which meansyou could actually send 200 requestssimultaneously and then wait for theoutputs of all 200 in the same timeblock as opposed to, you know,independently. So I'm still going towait for this thing to finish because Iwant this test to be done end to end atleast once. Um, after that, we're goingto look into ways to make this fasterthrough parallelization and so on and soforth. Okay, so I got a little bit boredand I just said, hey, could we make thisway faster? It's since um offered tobatch all of these requests. So that'swhat it's going to do next. and let'ssee how quickly it performs. While I'mdoing that, let me just create a newsearch. Maybe instead of United Statesresidents, um I want to search Canadianresidents. [gasps] That way, we'll beable to split test this very quickly andeasily. As you can see here, we have 31results. Uh maybe we'll also do postedon LinkedIn, so maybe 45 or somethinglike that. Okay, no, it's just 20. If Ideselect this, how many do we get? 683.Uh too many. Why don't we just doVancouver instead? I I want like between50 to 100.Okay, 66. That's perfect. So, this isgoing to be the URL I use to test the umtotally fresh app. It's now just goingto go through the process of selfannealing, running, testing, and so onand so forth. Looks like it found 139valid emails of my 231 sent. Now, it'sjust going through and updating thescript a couple more times. Cool. It'sgone through and since found me a bunchof leads, I can open up the spreadsheetto get 159 rows. So, um, these are allof the the records with email addresses.Um, there were more records that didn'thave email addresses, but we just leftthose out. Obviously, this is prettysolid, but, um, I want to number one,make sure that we're documenting this.So, I'm going to head back over here,and I'll say make sure to document allchanges, both directives and executions.Once it's done with the documentation,I'm then going to open up a totally newfresh instance and then go through andthen um, update and then test. Cool. Andit looks like it did some updating.That's pretty solid. What I'm going todo next is I'm just going to open up anew instance of Cloud Code. Going to setit to bypass permissions and I'll say,"Hey, here's a search URL. Scrape theseusing our pipeline."All right. So now this is a totally newfresh cloud code instance. Let's see howit performs. It's going to start bythinking it's checking the directive forLinkedIn scraping, which is great.That's what we wanted. It's then goingthrough here. URL is a sales navigatorsearch has a bunch of information here.It's going to check how many leads areavailable. Cool. Found 66 prospects. Itis now going to perform the full scrape.Okay. And it looks like we got uh 45 outof those 66. So, this did work on atotally fresh list. Um took me about 4minutes. I got a little bit overeagerand I was like, "Hey, are you done yet?"But realistically, this uh this workspretty well. So, I mean, a couple ofdifferent approaches that I could takehere. Obviously, I could make thisbetter, could make this faster. I couldset up approaches to dump all this intoGoogle sheet instantly using bulk. Icould do I could do a lot of stuff anduh that's what I want to talk aboutnext. But for the purposes of thisdemonstration, this is good to go. Wehave essentially created a workflow tocompletely or almost completely automatethe entire process of scraping LinkedIn.Obviously, there is still one manualstep, which is we need to provide theLinkedIn sales navigator URL, but that'ssomething that we could reasonablyautomate if we'd like to as well. So,here's what you don't need to specify.You don't need to know which APIs to useor how they authenticate. You also don'tneed to know how to structure the codeor handle an error case yourself. Andyou don't even need to know any Python,any JavaScript, or any programminglanguage. The agent's whole job is toabstract that complexity away from youand turn it into a natural language. Areally cool hack that I'm using a lotmore of now is I don't just have theagent solve it one approach. I actuallyhave the agent produce three approachessimultaneously. Then I either pick oneof the three, whichever one makes themost sense, or this is kind of neat,[clears throat] I have parallelinstances of my agent generate all threedirective and execution scripts basedoff of each approach. I then just testtheir outputs and I rate. I test them onthings like how fast it is, test them onthings like how reliable it is and howcheap it is, and then I just pick thebest performing one, and then that's it.Why three approaches? Well, if you thinkabout it, the cost of exploring multipleapproaches is basically free. They'renot it's not free free tokens are notfree yet but they are very cheapcompared to the cost of intelligence andit's also a big chunk of the searchspace. Uh basically if this is like theamount of space you have to searchthrough in order to come up with yourreally really cool problem rather thanhave your agent just go like manuallyone by one by one by one and just kindof do this whole thing on its own. Umyou can actually just like quarter thisyou know and in my case I said three butyou could totally have it four and thenjust have like four agents independentlysimultaneously. I can't drawsimultaneous executions here, but justassume that it is. Explore that searchbase in like a tenth of the time. Whenyou do this, I recommend you have it runin a temporary folder. So, you say,"Hey, do this in a temporary folder.Don't do this in the main directiveexecution um framework." Cuz I'mactually giving this to a few of yourbrother and sister agents to runsimultaneously to figure out the bestapproach. There are a couple oftrade-offs with every single way thatyou build. The first is speed versuscost. So, do you need it fast or do youneed it cheap? Obviously, we're lookingfor situations where we have both, but alot of the time you have to maketrade-offs. Next is reliability andcomplex complexity. The simple solutionsdo break less often. If you can storethings in one execution script, it's wayfaster and better than if you storethings in 10. The next is breadth versusdepth. So if you cover more ground or goreally, really, really deep on a fewitems, it's going to depend or it'sgoing to change how your agentconstructs things. And then finally,sometimes you just need human judgmentto weigh these things. So I wouldrecommend at least asking your agent,how would you do this stuff before youactually have it go and build uh everyapproach. If you think about itlogically, this steering is the highestreturn on investment time that you willever spend across your entire agenticworkflow career. And the reason why isreally some of what I talked aboutearlier. If you just look at any processthat has variability in its outputs,okay, this variability grows over timeas you proceed through the process justbecause there are more and more and moreand more steps possible, right? And soright now, this is kind of like therange of all of the possible umdecisions that the model could make.Well, if you think about it, the onething that you have the power to do atthe very very beginning is you have thepower to steer what direction this thinggoes. And so let's say hypothetically mygoal is over here, right? Or maybe weshould say my goal is over here. If atthe very beginning, literally from thefirst step, the model is already in thewrong direction. It doesn't reallymatter how much time and energy it takesto build things, right? But if you couldjust reorient this approach down overhere, then your solution is actually inthe range of all possible outcomes. Icall this steering just like steering acar. If you steer, let's say you'regoing like a real straight line trackand your car at the very beginning ofthe track is already starting to veeroff a little bit. Obviously, the mostimportant thing you can do as a, youknow, driver is you could just steer itso that it goes basically as as straightdown the middle of this thing as humanlypossible, right? And that's justultimately something that really takeslike a minute or two. I wouldn'trecommend trying to outsource everythingto the model, like the thinking itself.The first version of anything you buildprobably will not be perfect. And thefirst versions of a lot of the thingsthat I build do suck, but that's okay.That's actually one of the points. Doughreally depends on iteration. So just runthe workflow a few times, watch whathappens, open up the reasoning loop, andthen just take some notes on what'sslow. Hey, I don't really like this.Hey, this takes forever. Is thatnecessary? Hey, um, I don't like howthis had to call this API. Hey, this isa little too expensive. How can we do itcheaper? Right? Actually, just tell themodel what it is. Like, it's you're notgoing to hurt its feelings. It's a theform of intelligence that none of us canreally quantify. Don't anthropomorphizethe damn thing. What'll happen is theagent will diagnose the problem and thenimplement a fix. And ideally, assumingthat you have it in your system prompt,it'll also update both the executionscript and your directive, which meansnext time you run from a fresh instance,it will already know the solution. Andthat's typically what I recommend. Irecommend running it, fixing it, gettingin that testing loop over and over andover again. And when you really want toverify that this thing works, you justopen it up in a new instance and thenhave it run. Every problem that youencounter will make your system strongerif you're smart. Edge cases will gethandled that you never anticipated. uhand after a few iterations you will havea robust workflow uh that I've heard alot of people say this term battletested I think battle tested about isabout as real and as accurate a way todescribe it but you'll have somethingthat is actually just kind of like beenthere done that it has seen all possibleinstances of the problem because it'srun 10 or 20 times it sort of knows whatto expect um you know you basically gofrom a workflow that the very first timeit runs maybe is 80% reliable to onethat's 90% reliable to one that's 95%reliable one that's 97% reliable onethat's 98% reliable and so on and so onand so on and so forth until it's like99.25% or something. And maybe this isthe theoretical limit that you reach.All right, let's build a lead genen flowstart to finish using everything thatI've talked about so far. You rememberhow earlier we created a lead generationworkflow? Well, what if instead of justusing one cloud instance