Hey, welcome to the definitive guide onagentic workflows for business. Now,agentic workflows have the potential tobring about what I think is one of thelargest wealth transfers in humanhistory. But very few people arecurrently talking about how topractically use them to improve theirfinancial means. That's what this videois going to show you how to do. Here'swhat you're going to learn. What anagentic workflow really is. How agenticworkflows function via loops. A fewcommon problems with agentic workflowsand how to fix them. How to actuallybuild these things. So, idees, settingup your workspace, creating your firstflow, the DO framework, directiveorchestration and execution, claudeskills, MCP and other frameworks, whateach one does, when to use which and howthey all fit together, how to test andvalidate agentic workflows, the bestsystem prompts for agentic workflows,which I will give you, how to make yourworkflows self annealing, aka healthemselves when they air out, how tomove out of the IDE and into the cloud.I'll teach you how to create web hooks,schedule triggers, and more. How to runmultiple agents simultaneously. I'llshow you a sub aents and advancedworkflow parallelization. And finally,how to troubleshoot agentic workflowswhen things break. If you don't know whoI am, I build two AI based serviceagencies to $160,000 a month in combinedrevenue. I've also consulted for acouple of billion-dollar businesses withAI. And I tell you this cuz I want tomake it clear. Well, you guys are ofcourse going to learn everything fromthe fundamentals all the way up to theadvanced concepts today. This course hasa business focus. My goal is to helpprepare as many people as possible forwhat I consider to be the next stage ofthe economy. So what you will learntoday is working right now. It isgenerating revenue right now and you canuse it to improve your own and otherpeople's businesses right now. Pleasebookmark this and use the chapterfeature to come back to it or wheneveryou need anytime. And I hope you guysare excited as I am to get into AgenticWorkflows. Let's get started. This is apractical course. The whole point of itis to build and then use AgenticWorkflows in real business environments.And that's because building is the mosteffective way to learn anything. Whenyou build with your hands and get themdirty, you're forced to deal withconcepts in a way that you guys neverwould have if you just sat back andpassively listened. That said, before weget into the building, and there will bea lot of building and a lot of demos inthis course, there are some foundationalthings about agents and workflows thatI'd highly recommend that you understandbecause if you don't understand them,you're going to commit many hours tothis course and you'll only really beable to digest or extract a fewpercentage points of it. So what I wantto do is I want to maximize the abilityand efficiency of your time by helpingyou cover those concepts now. And bydoing that, you'll be able to absorb therest of the course a lot faster and alot better. So what do I mean byconcepts? AI is currently in an overhangstate. Current AI capabilities are veryfar beyond what most people believe,expect, or know how to use. If you guysgraft this, what we have down here issort of like the general public'sperception of AI, okay? And theirability to use it. And what we haveabove it is sort of like the reality,okay? You guys are going to see a lot ofvery crappily drawn lines in thiscourse, so you might as well get used tothem now. So this gap between thereality of the situation and then whatpeople believe AI is capable of iscalled the overhang.The reason why this overhang exists andthe reason why people are only squeezingout a very small percentage of theactual value of AI, large languagemodels, agentic workflows and so on andso forth [snorts] is because right nowmost people are using them as glorifiedcopy and paste tools. They are basicallytrying to drink through the Pacific orAtlantic Ocean with a tiny straw. Youknow, they ask these galaxy brainintelligences. Pretty dumb questions tobegin with to be honest. They answer andthen all they do is they copy it fromone tab into another, which is obviouslya very low bandwidth, reallybottlenecked way of working. They arenot integrating AI into their businesslike I'm about to show you how to do inthis course. Instead, they're justdealing with it like a like an externalsort of third party thing.Now, obviously, people are figuring outthat AI is a lot more powerful than mostpeople give it credit to, and courseslike mine are helping them do so. But asthey figure it out, the arbitrage windowwill close. And in case you guys didn'tknow, arbitrage is your ability toessentially produce some sort ofbeneficial outcome, revenue or profit,based off of a disparity in knowledge.And so, if you know, you know, this andthe rest of the market knows this,obviously there's kind of a gap there,right? and the market is willing to payyou to be somebody that solves thatlittle tiny gap. Well, that window isclosing because people are learningabout how this technology works. Butright now, it's wide open and you canmake a ton of money with it. So, just asa demonstration to show you how powerfulthese models are, I'm going to have onein particular called Claude Opus 4.5 doa pretty straightforward task for me.This task is to compile a list of fivelocal meal preparation companies thatdeliver to around my area and then findtheir email addresses. I'm then going tosend each of them emails withspecifications from this email. I wantuh you know 3500 calories a day, 200grams of protein a day. I'm doing somebig bulk. Do this entirely autonomouslyrequiring no input from me. If youcannot find the emails of at least five,then keep on searching until you do.Most people don't realize that modelsare entirely capable of doing this sortof thing for you and essentially actingas you know an extension of yourself. Soit's starting off by searching for mealprep delivery companies downtownVancouver BC 2025. If I were doing thison my own, this is probably somethingthat I would do as well, right? likevery straightforward and logical. Youdon't need to know how the IDE that I'musing uh works. You don't need tounderstand the interface or everything.I'm going to cover all this later on inthe course. And as you can see, it'sfound me a bunch of meal preparationservices. There's Fresh Prep, Two Guyswith Knives, Crave Healthy, Fed, Freshin Your Fridge, K-Bop, and then WellFed.Now, it's finding email addresses ofeach of these. So, as you can see, it'sactually simultaneously running a bunchof searches on their websites to lookfor email addresses or contact methods.A few seconds later, it looks like itcould only find one email out of thefour or five searches that it ran. So,what is it doing instead? It's nowbroadening its search. It's going oncontact pages. It's looking foralternative solutions. Okay, it's nowaccumulated the email addresses and likea temporary database. And it's justgoing through and sending emails. Itdoes so through uh what's called an MCP,model contact protocol server that I'veset up. I'll show that to you later. Andboom. Now, it is done. So, we've sentfive emails. Down here, you can see itsaid, "I asked each company about custommeal plans, pricing for higher volumeorders, and their delivery schedule todowntown Vancouver." We also includedthe requirements. I went through and Iactually found the email that it sent.It was something like this. Hey, companyteam, I'm looking for a meal prepservice that delivers to downtownVancouver and that contains thefollowing requirements. Daily caloriesapproximately 3500. Daily proteinapproximately this much. Focus on wholefoods and healthy ingredients.Interested in learning more? Do you mindletting me know? you know, if you guysoffer custom meal plans, um, what yourpricing looks like and how your deliveryschedule works. Looking forward tohearing from you. Thank you very much.So, I mean, like, this is something Irealistically probably would have sentmyself. Um, is it in my exact tone ofvoice, honestly? Like, it's reallyclose. This is more or less everythingthat I would send. There's no AI isms.People on the other end of the linearen't going to know that I'm using AIto do this sort of thing. And it turneda process that realistically would havepreviously taken me maybe like 20minutes into something that took meliterally less than 15 seconds. I mean,I wrote the thing, I pressed enter, andthen I went. And what you'll see is withthe use of other bandwidth improvingtools like voice transcription and stufflike this, you can actually have agenticworkflows become more or less yourinterface for the internet. And I shouldnote that I didn't even use a definedagentic workflow for this. I literallyjust asked an agent to do something andit was super unstructured and it stilldid a great job. Imagine when we wrapthis in the framework. I also want tocover this idea of a river of value. Theway I see the global economy is as agiant river. Okay. Now, capital flows towhoever provides value. And essentiallywhat occurs is for many centuries thatvalue has come from human labor,primarily physical to start, althougheventually cognitive. And then the morevalue that people could produce, themore downstream little tributaries ofthis river we found. And so this mightbe some person that's producingtremendous value, these might be otherpeople and so on and so forth. The wholeidea of capital is that as solutionsarrive in the economy that are more andmore effective, [gasps] they producelarger diversions of this stream. Okay?And so let's say this person Z is usingagentic workflows. The idea is over thecourse of the next few years, he or sheis going to consume more and more andmore and more and more of that riveruntil essentially he's getting all ofit. Those who position themselves aspeople like Z in this case will capturemassive flows from the future economybecause agentic workflows aren'toptional. There's something that arecoming and being deployed right now. Thelast thing I want to talk about isautomation in the terms of a Genticworkflow. Now, a lot of people thatwatch my channel and are probably hereare familiar with the idea ofautomation. They're also familiar withthe idea of roles and they've heard alot of things about how AI agents arecoming and their whole fleets of teamsthat are being replaced and so on and soforth. And this is kind of inaccurate.Rather than thinking about agenticworkflows, which is what we're going tocover in this course, as being able toautomate 100% of one role, I want you tothink about it a little differently. Iwant you to think about agenticworkflows as being capable of automating90% of 10,000 roles. So as opposed toautomating 100% okay of one, we'reautomating say 90% of 10,000 people inthe organization. Now if you automate100% of one role, that's actually prettyvaluable. Don't get me wrong. If I couldautomate a software developer completelyend to end, if I could automate amarketer end to end, obviously thatproduces some value in my organization.But agentic workflows, like a lot oftechnology, have gaps. And so, um, themain issue is human beings tend toalways have a little bit more contextthan these things do, at least rightnow. And so, even the ability toautomate 90% of 10,000, despite the factthat it's not 100, is still tremendouslyvaluable. If you just do the math,automating 100% of one person's role isequivalent to basically providing oneunit of economic value. Whereas, if youautomate 90% of 10,000 people's, you'reproviding 9,000 units of economic value.As long as you structure your companiesin a way to accommodate these things,these things are very powerful. Now, Icall this horizontal leverage and it'svery, very strong. Another way I wantyou to think about this is like theindustrial revolution. Back in the goodold days, well, I don't know if theywere really good, but certainly back inthe day, you had people likeseamstresses who would, you know, knitvarious garments and stitch variousthings together. And maybe one of theseseamstresses could produce, you know, 10pairs of a specific type of clothing perday. Well, after the industrialrevolution, obviously we didn't do a lotof this stuff by hand anymore. We hadmachines that did this stuff instead. Somaybe a loom. Before a single seamstresscould produce maybe 10 garments a day.After one of these machines could maybeprepare 10,000 garments in a day. Thatsaid, it the machine didn't fullyreplace that seamstress because thatseamstress just transitioned. Instead ofbeing somebody that worked with theirhands on building the garment directly,they instead became somebody that wassupervising whole fleets of machinesthat did it. Now imagine if in thisanalogy, not only can we build and use aloom, we are capable of rebuilding thatloom in any configuration in seconds. Wedon't have to, you know, smelt the metaland then hammer it and then construct itin a way and screw gears and all thatstuff in order to build a machine. Wecould literally just use naturallanguage. Obviously, that would be a lotmore powerful, right? Well, that reallyis the idea of an agentic workflow. Itis something that provides incrediblehorizontal leverage and we canreconfigure it in seconds to do more orless whatever we want. And it's not anexaggeration to tell you that this is aphase change essentially in a company'sability to automate things. So if youguys are familiar with automationplatforms, in this case this is N8N,you'll know that most of the time theway that we are currently buildingautomated systems is through drag anddrop nodes or modules. And so on theleft hand side here, I have a simplesystem set up. I'm not going to gothrough everything because it'spointless. The point is not to learn aspecific automation platform. The pointis to learn how to automate platforms ingeneral, but I have a specificautomation here that just responds tosome emails coming in for a cold emailcampaign. And as you see here, we havethese nodes and they do various things.Some of them do HTTP requests. Some ofthem do some data processing and andformatting. Some of them call a Googlesheet. We have some AI functionality andso on and so forth. They're allconnected with these lines, which isbasically the the flow of logic througha system. And this is hunky dory. Itworks really well. Well, the new versionof that workflow on the left, whichobviously requires a lot of time,energy, and understanding in order to beable to to parse and then change is whatwe have on the right. Instead of dealingwith nodes and specific softwareplatforms, we use the universaltranslation, which is natural language,and then just write it out in bulletpoints. So on the right hand side I havethe exact same workflow except I have itset for agentic uh systems and all it isis a list of bullet points. Hey whensomebody replies to one of your coldoutreach campaigns instantly should senda web hook. The system should look upthe campaign in a Google sheet to findtalking points and example replies. Itshould then research the person whoreplied. It should then generate a shortfriendly reply. If they said somethingnegative like unsubscribe or remove me,we should skip them. If there's noknowledge base, we should skip them.Otherwise, we should send the replyautomatically. I want you guys to seethat on the left hand side, we had tospend months, maybe years, becomingskilled enough to use a platform to beable to build systems that did this. Andon the right, a toddler who has a arough idea in mind of what he or shewants to do can write it out in naturallanguage. And not only can everybodyelse on a team interpret that, we canalso change that at any point. If Iwanted to add an additional step to myworkflow, all I do is I click click onthis, press enter, and then just writeit out. and the agentic workflow builderand then eventually doer using aframework I'm going to run you guysthrough later on in this course will doit and it'll do it extraordinarilyremarkably well. So that's a veryfundamental change in how these thingswork and hopefully it's clear toeverybody here that workflows are nolonger drag and drop sort of builds inthe concept that we see on the left handside. They're very much so just likebasic logic. So why is all of this stuffpossible right now? It certainly wasn'tjust a little while ago. Well, there arethree main reasons. intelligence, tools,and cost. On the intelligence side,model intelligence just crossed athreshold and became very, very good,seemingly overnight, but really we'vebeen working up to it for quite a while.Frontier models like Anthropics Claude,OpenAs, Chat, GBT, Google's Gemini, andthen a bunch of other ones have gottenreally smart. They score around 80% on abenchmark called software engineeringbench verified. And this measures realsoftware engineering ability. This isnot a crappy cherrypicked demo. Itwasn't included in like the trainingdata or anything like that. These arenovel problems that are being solved innovel ways through models. Andessentially, they are genuineprofessional grade work that are betterthan most software engineers. Now, Iwould have considered myself a softwareengineer a couple of years ago. I'd saymy skills have definitely uhdeteriorated a fair amount since becauseI've been focusing more on no code toolsand and making money and stuff likethat. But this stuff is so far beyond myown abilities as sort of like amid-level dev u that it's not evenfunny. Most people that learn about thisand they're going to be learning aboutit pretty soon will think that AI wentfrom, you know, intern level to somesort of senior employee overnight. Butthis is just how knowledge works.Basically, anytime that you have aprocess and that process slowly getsbetter and better and better over time,most people don't see until we hit acertain threshold and then it almostlooks like it went vertical. In reality,uh it's almost like the way that boilingwater works, right? The temperature ofwater goes up and up and up and up andup and then eventually it boils and thenit fundamentally changes state. Youknow, it goes from over here where it'slike a liquid to over here where it's aa gas. And although we're supplying moreand more energy to this thing, we're notreally seeing it change until all of asudden, boom, it's producing bubbles andgetting all over the place. So, I seemodel intelligence a very, very similarway. So, a lot of people talk aboutbenchmarks. Very few people actuallyshow what the questions inside of abenchmark realistically ask. I thinkbenchmarks are for the most part prettyartificial. A much better test of howgood a model is is just how good youfeel while using it. But it is importantthat at least we understand howbenchmarks work in order for us toreally put in context the capabilitiesof agents. So here's uh one fromAstropi. It's a misleading exceptionmessage. And basically, these models areso