it'd be really cool ifI could weave this into other workflowslike our onboarding workflow that wemade earlier. So, how do I do this? I'mjust going to ask it to build this forme. I'd like you to be a wrapper aroundmy ClickUp CRM. I want to be able to askyou to do anything inside of ClickUp,then have you automate the process forme. This will also allow us to connectto other workflows that we build aroundmy agency. All of the CRM information isstored inside of theand let me head back over here and let'ssee what it's called. Template creativeagency space.Give me three ways we could do this.Okay, it's now going to create meeverything that I need. The first optionis a direct script library. It'll createa set of execution scripts for commonClickUp operations with a masterdirective that routes requests. That'spretty cool. I would have to invoke itevery time. Then there's some sort ofconversational idea. Then there's also aweb hook bridge. I like the idea ofnumber one. I want to see if there's asimpler way to do this. Is there anysimpler way to do this? Like is there anMCP or just anything that wouldn'trequire us building a specific step forevery request?It's going to go through and reasonfirst. So, it's going to check to seewhether or not there is anything outthere that would allow us to do thismore easily. What it's doing here isit's using a web search sub agent.Believe it or not, we're going to talk alot more about sub agents later, but subaents have pros and cons. When you usesub agents, things typically take a lotlonger to finish, but the pro is youisolate the context. And um what thatmeans is you just don't need to worryabout inserting all this stuff into themain flow. Cool. So, this is sort ofwhat I wanted to do initially. kind ofcheating here, but I know MCP is just asimple and easy way that I could buildsomething like this. And I'll show youguys more about this later. But as wesee here, there's an official and thenthere's also a nonofficial one. What I'mgoing to do is I'll say, "Hey, let's dothe official. How do I get my APItoken?"Okay, it's giving me some instructionshere. So, I'm going to head over here. Ijust need to regenerate this API token.So, first I have to put my password in.Just bear with me.Next, I'm going to copy this token over.And then I'm just going to head overhere and paste it. One thing that you'llfind that models do pretty often is, andI don't know if this is because theywant to conserve on their own tokenusage or something, instead of justdoing the thing for you, often timesthey will say, "Hey, I'm going to findinformation on how you can do thething." What is super super powerful isjust to say, "Okay, great. Do it. Lookslike we need some more informationhere." So, we need to go to ClickUp inour browser, look at the URL, and thenget the team ID.I see it right over there. Let me justpaste it in. Okay. And now all I need todo is just restart Claude Code. So, letme click this little X, head over hereagain. I double tap on the page in orderto create that new file.Okay. And now I have an MCP. So, let mejust give that a click. When you typeback SLMCP, you can now see the MCPservers you have. and I'll say,"Awesome. Can you create a new recordfor me?"So, because this is an MCP, it's like ageneral solution. It's not a specificsolution. We need to insert someinformation about this. So, what type ofrecord? Where should it go? I'd like youto act essentially as my ClickUpwrapper.Keep in mind that this is a newinstance. So, I need to provide it somehighle instructions. again.So all conversations are going to berelated to that space.I'd like you to store this informationsomewhere. That way the next time I askyou to do this, you'll do it the firsttime.Go and learn about the space first.New lead, Peter Rockwell.Okay. And now what it's doing when I saynew lead Peter Rockwell, it is creatinga lead in that space. Prettystraightforward. Let's go check and makesure that it's good. And as you can seehere, we now have a meeting URL link aswell as a status of meeting booked.Hopefully, it's clear. I could talk allday about this and give this all of theinformation that I want in order to haveit, you know, manage my uh ClickUp CRMfor me. So, that's one way to do so withan MCP, which is really straightforwardand it's super simple. Let me show youanother way we can do this just usinglike the ClickUp API instead. So I'mjust going to exit out of this and thencreate a new cloud code instance. I'mgoing to say, hey, can you uninstall theClickUp MCP and remove anything in ourenvironment that has to do with ClickUp?I'm doing a demo.Then going to bypass permissions. So Ijust don't have to worry about it. It'sjust going to do it all for me. Hey, I'dlike you to build a series of ClickUpdirectives so that I could automate theprocess of adding records, updatingthem, and so on and so forth. Ibasically want you to act as my ClickUpwrapper. I want to do this via APIcalls. We previously tried MCP, but I'mdoing a demo and I just want to do thisvia API instead. Okay, it's now buildingthis out systematically. So, it's goingto start by building a base ClickUp APIclient. It's then going to create CRUDscripts to create, get, update, delete.So, I'm going to create directives foreach operation. Then, finally, it'sgoing to update my env template. It sayswith a ClickUp API key placeholder. Um,I did just remove it, so I'm going tohave to add that in again most likely.What's really cool is I know nothingabout any of this stuff, and it's justdoing it all completely automaticallyright now. It's writing all thedirectives, all the executions,literally everything that I need. Andso, the reason why I'm showing youmultiple different ways to do things isbecause there almost always are multipledifferent ways to do things. And with AIand agentic workflow builders like this,it's not necessarily that one approachis better than the other. Sometimes I'lltry an approach and for whatever reason,whether the API isn't cooperating orit's just not very logisticallyreasonable, I will abandon it halfwayand then just do another one. There's noreason why I have to commit to somethingthat isn't working. And I can alwayschange things. Nowadays, the barrierisn't really whether or not it'spossible. The barrier is basically just,hey, how much time do I want to spendguiding or steering the ship in order toget this thing done for me. Okay, it'snow going through adding all theinformation that we need. I gave it theAPI key as you guys could see above.It's going to essentially loop over asmany times as it takes because of whatis in the cloud MD. Eventually, it willum, you know, solve its own problemsthrough a process called self annealing.And then we'll be able to do things likecreate tasks, delete them, update them,and so on and so forth. So, it's justrunning through and testing all of thevarious scripts that it put together.The creating of a task, the deleting,the cleaning up, so on and so forth. So,let me give it some more highleinstructions just to tell it I reallywanted to work within that templatecreative agency uh uh space. I'd likeyou to do all of your tasks solely inthe template creative agency space.Update everything to reflect this. Thenwhatever you need to in order to reflectthis. Then create a new lead called NickSar.Cool. Looks like it already knows whatit needs to do. So now it's going tocreate the lead. And you can see it'seven given me a link to the lead so thatI can pull it up and see it for myself,which is pretty cool. Awesome. Why don'twe see if this has access to some otherfields? Do you have access to customfields? Okay. First, it's going to seethe custom fields in this list. It'sthen going to see if we could set theappropriate one. Nice. That's prettycool. So, whereas the other one couldnot set custom fields, um, this one canset custom fields, which is prettysweet. As you guys could see, sometimesthere's pros or cons to differentapproaches. This one was really awesome.So, to be honest, I now basically havelike a whole CRM manager. Great. Deletethe record. That was just for demo.I'd personally say having some sort ofCRM wrapper like this now with the powerof current technology is like anon-negotiable. This thing just makesour lives so much easier. And what'sreally cool is we could weave flows intogether. So when somebody becomes a newclient, for instance, we could thenautomatically send that onboarding flow,then maybe even reflect that by adding acomment or something like this. Thesethings will supercharge any CRM veryvery quickly. Okay, I want to talk alittle bit about cloud skills. Um, thisis really similar to DO like we just tedchatted about, but it is specific to thecloud family of models. So you can't usethe same cloud skills structure that I'mabout to show you in like Gemini orOpenAI or or GPT 5.2 or whatever. It'svery very specific to Claude. That said,you know, all of these model familiesnow have their own versions of this. SoI wanted to cover probably like the mostpopular one just so we're all on thesame page. I care a lot aboutinterpretability and modularity. So Iwant to be able to use the same workflowsetup in, you know, model A versus modelB versus model C. Um cloud skills areobviously hyperspecific to anthropicsmodel. Now, this was their attempt tostandardize Agentic workflows intoreusable portable packages. And justlike DO, it's a folder structure. Itcontains instructions, scripts, prompts,and resources that Claude will loadevery time you call something. So, it'sjust a slightly different folderstructure that includes a file called askill.md. And I'm going to run youthrough that in a moment. The way thatskills work in a nutshell is just ignorethe lefth hand side of this graph cuz Ithink this is a little more complicatedthan we probably need right now. Butbasically, you have your agent and youragent organizes things into these skillsfolders. And so, it's a skills foldersslash whatever the the skill um that youwant it to to know is. So, in this case,there's a skill called big query. Then,you'll see there's a capital skill.mdwith a data sources.md, a rules.md. Overhere, there's an NDA review, whichincludes a skill.md. The skill.md isjust your directive, right? And you'llnotice that because it's in markdown.Everything else here is entirely up toyou. And so it's sort of like a looseframework right now where people arejust dumping in whatever the heck theywant the agent to have access to. It'salso just a form to uh a way that youcan modularize things. And basicallywhat you'll do is you'll just have likea big list a big directory calledskills. Then underneath that you willhave things like you know hey uh let'sdo big query. Let's do one called docx.Let's do one called pdf. Let's do onecalled I don't know scrape leads. Andeach of these are going to be folders umthemselves. So very similar to do. justtakes a slightly different approach.Instead of having like the executablesand like the scripts and stuff like thatstored in other folders like anexecution scripts folder, um it juststores it all in the exact same one. Theway I treat things is as an instructionmanual that Claude reads first. There'sone slight difference between the waythat the markdown file is written in sofar that um it uses what's called YAMLfront matter. YAML just stands for yetanother markup language by the way,which is really funny. There's like amillion different ways to do this.Basically what this is is this is like ashort I don't know 100 character 200character description of what the skilldoes. Um so as opposed to with you knowthe directive orchestration executionframework you know I don't usually useYAML I just like have it whip it upalthough YAML I think would be animprovement. Um you know instead of justnaming something really descriptivelywhat this does is actually just providessome context. Hey this script does X Yand Z. Hey this uh skill asks for thisthing. And then you know what'll happenis upon runtime claude will load theskill based on whatever task you'reasking to perform just based off of theYAML front matter which just means itsaves a lot of tokens. It doesn't haveto read the whole thing. So this is justa small block of metadata at the top ofthe file. There's like a name field,there's a description field, and thenthere's a purpose field and I'll showyou an actual concrete example in asecond. And then it's like kind ofseparated like this. And then when theagent loads the file um to actually likesearch through your skills, you say,"Hey, you know, I want you to scrapesome leads." It'll actually just loadthis. So, it's way way shorter. Smallmetadata allows it to, you know, onlyload a few hundred characters at a timeas opposed to big chunks. It allows itto understand what the skill doeswithout reading the whole thing. Now,there's also a big library of pre-builtskills right now for common tasks,mostly relating to documents. Um, andthese are just skills that have beenlike hyper optimized over the course oftens of thousands of runs. You can thinkof them as execution scripts anddirectives that are just really, really,really self- annealed and they're justreally, really powerful. So, we can doPDF creation, do word documents easily,Excel spreadsheets, PowerPointpresentations. The quality issurprisingly good. And because so manypeople have run these things becausethey've optimized the hell out of it,they tend to execute super quickly andthen they also tend to be like prettyreliable. All right, let me show yousome cloud skills in action. Let's talkabout how to build things in cloudskills format instead of do format. Iwant you guys to see it's more or lessthe same thing. This is just highlycloudspecific. So I have a simple taskin front of me here. I want to create anew cloud skill called generate- report.And I want this to build a weeklyweather report with publicly availableinformation from some API. I justGoogled weather API. Pasted this inthere. I don't even know if it's goingto work, but we'll figure it outalongside each other. I also said I wanta Canada specific just because I'mCanadian. I.e. this report should be allabout the weather across Canada. Now thelast thing I need is I need some sort oftemplate. So I'm just going to go andI'm going to see if I could download afree report template.Let's see. It's going to open up a bunchof tabs. What do we got here? 2035annual report. That looks ridiculous.[gasps] Um, okay. This one looks prettycool. Can I just download this wholething? Okay. Anyway, I'm just going togo over to Canva here. And then I'm justgoing to download this as uh what are wegoing to do? PDF. Let's just do PDF.We'll do all pages. I'll click download.Once I have this, I'm then going toprovide this file to Cloud Code.I have a template file in I'll just dragthis over totand I'll just call it uhorange and black modern annual reportthat I want you to use. Go. Awesome.So it's then going to pull that file andthen it's going to because it knows howto generate cloud skills sort ofnatively go through the whole process.Okay. It's going through and thencreating the skill directory structure.Uh it's then writing the skill MD withinstructions. It's doing a fair amountof stuff. So I'm just head over to hereto skills and then I'll see where thiswould be. Okay. Generate report rightover here.Okay. And inside there's a skill.md.Then there's also a scripts folder. Thisis where we're going to insert thescripts. It's now going to go fetch abunch of weather data. The cool thingabout Claude skills is there's thislittle YAML front matter. It's called YA ML and then front matter is justeverything that's between these threedashes. And here we have the name, abrief description, and then also someallowed tools, which is really cool. Soyou can get very granular with how yougive your agent access to theseworkflows. And then what's cool is theyonly actually um load this into contextbefore deciding on which skill to use.So that way you save a fair amount oftokens because it doesn't have to likeread every single file, right? Okay, I'mthen going to get an API key payment.Okay, it looks like open weather map isnot free despite it saying that it isfree. I need to sign up and then entersome payment information. So don't usethat. U what I've done here is I've justsaid, hey, it's not free. So find asource that is free. So now it's goingto go and it's going to find mesomething that is realistically. Lookslike it found an alternative sourcecalled open- so it's just going torewrite it with that information inmind. Now that it's done a little bit ofwork, what it's doing is just testingthis skill. Okay, looks like it has nowgenerated me a file. Let's just say openPDF.Cool. And now we have it. So, Canadaweekly weather 2025, table of contents,national overview, weather highlights,west coast prairie, central Canada. So,you guys can see it is very, very easyto create a template using a PDF. Justdrag and drop that puppy in. And thenboom, you now have native intelligencethat is capable of interacting withtools like this to generate honestly avery clean and very sexy proposaldocument. Pretty straightforward, huh?So, I mean like this is just one of manyasset generation workflows that youcould do. Um, hopefully you guys see youcould now like generate proposals in aflash. You could generate any PDF in aflash, customized assets or slide decksor whatever the heck you want. um itreally only takes a data source, thetemplate itself and then you waitingaround 5 minutes or so as it selfanneals and then generates. Let's talk alittle bit about model context protocol.So this is essentially a USB for AI. Theidea is that it is a universal adapterthat lets any assistant whatever modelfamily connect to any data sourceinteroperably. Now when I say USB um awhile back you had so many differenttypes of USBs. You had like a USB 1, youhad a USB 2, you had a USBA,a USB. I don't actually know if thisone's real, but you had like hundreds ofdifferent types of USB configurations,basically hundreds of different cables.And then um eventually somebody made aUSBC