out. Our LLM app is actuallygoing to run that command for us or wecan run this manually. We don't reallyneed to unless we want it to be accessedremotely. We can actually do this.We can specify the transport to bestandard input output SSE streaming tomake it available over the network. Iknow right. Imagine running your ownDocker MCP gateway server for all thethings in your home network or yourbusiness. just okay we're on the samepage here. I think we also have thedocker mcp catalog command which we canlook at our if we do ls we can see wehave our default docker mcp catalog andthere is an official way where you cancreate your own docker mcp server andsubmit that to be added to the officialcatalog. You can do that but you have toget it approved. You have to wait andI'm not very patient. I don't know aboutyou. Docker actually does help us manageour secrets. So Dr. MCP secrets. Nowwhat's a secret? What are you talkingabout? Things like API keys, ooth. Youcan securely manage your secrets withDocker. Now, two more crazy things Iwant to show you. Right now, we'rerunning Docker MCP gateway with DockerDesktop. That's like the official way todo it right now because they have theMCP gateway in beta that you can runalongside of it. But if you check outthe documentation, and I bet they'regoing to make it better and better andbetter and better. Dude, this coffee islike hitting me like crazy. I love it.I'll put this link below, but you canrun the Docker MCP gateway as a Dockercontainer totally apart from the DockerMCP toolkit and Docker Desktop. Beensaying Docker a lot. Coffee break. Whichmeans yes, you could run a headlessserver somewhere else running all kindsof crazy stuff. And I'm going to showyou this real quick. I'm going to runthe gateway Docker MCP gateway runtransport. I'm going run it with SSE. Ithink that's how we do it. Yes. So nowit's actually running over the networkinstead of standard input output. It'son port 8811. That's my IP address. So,real quick, I'm going to jump into NAN,my local NAN configuration here in mystudio. This is going to be so powerful.I'll create a new workflow. I'll have anAI agent come in and do something crazy.And I'll give it a tool. How about anMCP server? I think it'll just be HTTPslash the IP address port 8811.Let's see.Oh, it sees everything. Yes. Look atthat. Over the stinking network. Okay.Okay. So, let's um I'm too excited. I'mso sorry. Let's give it a crazy prompt.Okay. Three steps. Find the bestrestaurant and Airbnb next to it andthen put it in my Obsidian vault usingthree different tools. Can it do it? Ihave no idea. Let's see. I'm so excitedto see if this works.Something broke, though.How to tell to ignore robots. See ifit'll be okay. Oh, yeah. Yeah, it'sgreat. Yes.Look at the logs here in the terminal.It using all these things, all thesetools, but I forgot step three. Oh, Ididn't give it memory. Hold on. You knowwhat? Let's try to oneshot this.Let's go. This is magic. This is puremagic.You did it. There it is. All right. So,where's the best restaurant? Okay. So,it gave me a lot of options. Needs somework on the prompt, but still, it usedall the tools just like that over thenetwork. And it was with one command Idid, right? Like that wasn't that hard.Okay, you just learned MCP. Not only canyou use an MCP server, but you learnedhow to build one yourself and you knowhow it works. That's a skill. Put thaton your stinking resume. Who do you knowthat knows how to do this? The list isnot very long right now. Now, I wouldlove to know what you thought of thisvideo and what you plan on building withMCP servers. Please comment below andlet me know. Also, if you like morestuff like this, more AI automation,which is like more real world, right?Check out my other video on N8N, anautomation platform that's justmind-boggling. That video was so fun tomake and I plan to make another one ontop of that. And of course, you saw howI connected our MCP environment, theDocker MCP gateway to N8N, opening upjust a billion possibilities. It'sendless. We're in a gold rushopportunity right now just to learn andcreate and do things like crazy. Don'twaste it. That's all I got. I'll catchyou guys next time.