practice, allowing our model to learn coarse vector fields for large values of t, and very refined structures as t approaches 0. After training, we can watch the time evolution of our model. We see this really interesting behavior as t approaches 0.4. Our learned vector field suddenly transitions, from pointing towards the center of the spiral to pointing towards the spiral itself. It feels like a phase change. We're now in a great position to resolve the final mystery of the DDPM paper. How is it that adding random noise at each step while generating images leads to better quality, sharper images? Let's follow the path of a single point guided by the DDPM image generation algorithm. On our 2D dataset, generating an image is equivalent to starting at a random location and working our way back to our spiral. Starting at a randomly chosen location of x equals minus 1.6 and y equals 1.8, our model's vector field points us back towards our spiral. Following the DDPM algorithm, we take a small step in the direction returned by our model, and add scaled random noise, which effectively moves our point in a random direction. We'll color the steps driven by our diffusion model in blue, and our random steps in gray. Note that the scale of the random step may seem large, but following our DDPM algorithm, the size of our random steps will come down as we progress. Repeating this process for 64 steps, our particle jumps around quite a bit due to both our learned vector field changing and our random noise steps, but ultimately lands nicely on our spiral. Repeating this process for a point cloud of 256 points, our reverse diffusion process starts out looking like absolute chaos, but does converge nicely, with most points landing on our spiral. Now, what happens if we remove the noise addition steps? Running our reverse diffusion process again without the random noise step, all of our points quickly move to the center of our spiral, and then make their way towards a single inside edge of the spiral. This result can help us make sense of why we saw a sad blurry tree earlier when we removed this random noise step. Instead of capturing our full spiral distribution, as we did when we included a noise step, all of our generated points end up close to the center or average of our spiral. In the space of images, averages look blurry. Conceptually, we can imagine different parts of our spiral corresponding to different images of trees in the desert. And when we remove the random noise steps from our generation process, our generated images end up in the center or average of these images, which looks like a blurry mess. Now, note that the analogy between our toy dataset and high dimensional image dataset breaks down a bit here. If all the points on our spiral correspond to realistic images, since our generated points do still end up landing on our 2D spiral, we would expect these generated points to still look like real images, but likely with less diversity than we would want. However, in the high dimensional space of images, it appears that our image generation process doesn't quite make it to the manifold of realistic images, resulting in a blurry non-realistic image. This prediction of the average is not a coincidence. It turns out that we can show mathematically that our model learns to point to the mean or average of our dataset, conditioned on our input point and the time in our diffusion process. One way to arrive at this result is to show that given the noise we add in our forward process is Gaussian, for sufficiently small step sizes our reverse process will also follow a Gaussian distribution, where our model actually learns the mean of this distribution. Since our model just predicts the mean of our normal distribution, to actually sample from this distribution, we need to add zero mean Gaussian noise to our model's predicted value, which is precisely what the DDPM image generation process does when we add random noise after each step. We can see this mean learning behavior most clearly early in our reverse diffusion process, when t is close to 1 and our training points are far from our spiral. Our model's learned vector field points towards the center or average of our dataset. So adding random noise during image generation falls nicely out of theory, and in practice prevents all our points from landing near the center or average of our dataset. The DDPM paper put diffusion models on the map as a viable method of generating images, but the diffusion approach did not immediately see widespread adoption. A key issue with the DDPM approach at the time was the high compute demands of the large number of steps required to generate high quality images, since each step required a complete pass through a potentially very large neural network. A few months later, a pair of papers from teams at Stanford and Google showed that it's remarkably possible to generate high quality images without actually adding random noise during the generation process, significantly reducing the number of steps required. The DDPM image generation process we've been looking at can be expressed using a special type of differential equation known as a stochastic differential equation. This first term represents the motion of our point driven by our model's vector field, and the second term represents the random motions of our point. Adding these terms together, we get the overall motion of our point at each step, dx. From here, we can consider how the distribution of all of our points evolves over time, where the motion of each point is governed by this stochastic differential equation. This problem has been well studied in physics. Using a key result from statistical mechanics known as the Fokker-Planck equation, the Google Brain team showed that there's another differential equation, this time an ordinary differential equation with no random component, that results in the same exact final distribution of points as our stochastic differential equation. This result gives us a new algorithm for generating images using our model's learned vector fields that does not require taking random steps along the way. Exactly how our ordinary differential equation maps to an image generation algorithm is a bit technical. I'll leave a link to a tutorial in the description. The key result here though, is that we end up with something that looks very similar to our DDPM image generation process, but without the random noise addition at each step, and with a new scaling for the sizes of steps that we take. This approach is generally known as DDIM. The scaling of our step sizes, and especially how these step sizes vary throughout a reverse diffusion process, matters a lot in practice. When we just removed the random noise steps from our DDPM generation algorithm earlier, all of our points ended up near the mean of our data, and we saw blurry results for our generated images. Switching to our DDIM approach, we now have smaller scaling for our step sizes that allow our trajectories to better follow the contour lines of our vector field, and land nicely on the correct spiral distribution. And applying our DDIM algorithm to our tree in the desert example, we're now able to generate nice results. Comparing to our original DDPM algorithm that required random steps, DDIM remarkably does not require any changes to model training, but is able to generate high quality images in significantly fewer steps, completely deterministically. Note that the theory does not tell us that our individual images or points on our spiral will be the same, but instead that our final distribution of points or images will be the same, regardless of whether we use our stochastic DDPM algorithm or our deterministic DDIM algorithm. The WAN model we saw earlier uses a generalization of DDIM called flow matching. By early 2021, it was clear that diffusion models were capable of generating high quality images, and thanks to image generation methods like DDIM, it was possible to generate these images without using enormous amounts of compute. However, our ability to steer the diffusion process using text prompts was still very limited. Earlier, we saw how CLIP was able to learn a powerful shared representation of images and text by concurrently training image and text encoder models. However, these models only go one way, converting text or images into embedding vectors. These two problems potentially fit together in a really interesting way. Diffusion models are able to potentially reverse the CLIP image encoder, generating high quality images, and the output vector of the CLIP text encoder could be used to guide our diffusion models toward the images or videos that we want. So the high level idea here is that we could pass in a prompt into the CLIP text encoder to generate an embedding vector, and use this embedding vector to steer the diffusion process towards the image or video of what our prompt describes. A team at OpenAI did exactly this in 2022. Using image and caption pairs to train a diffusion model to invert the CLIP image encoder. Their approach yielded an incredible level of prompt adherence, capturing an unprecedented level of detail from the input text. The team called their method unCLIP, but their model is better known by its commercial name, DALI2. But how do we actually use the embedding vectors for models like CLIP to steer the diffusion process? One option is to simply pass our text vector as another input into our diffusion model, and train as we normally would to remove noise. If we train our diffusion model using image and caption pairs, as the OpenAI team did, the idea here is that the model will learn to use the text information to more accurately remove noise from images, since it now has more context about the image that it's learning to denoise. This technique is called conditioning. We used a similar approach earlier, when we conditioned our toy diffusion model on the number of time steps elapsed in the diffusion process, allowing the model to learn coarse structure for large values of t, and finer structures as our training samples get closer to our original spiral. Interestingly, there turns out to be a variety of ways we can pass in the text vector into our diffusion model. Some approaches use a mechanism called cross-attention to couple image and text information. Other approaches simply add or append the embedded text vector to our diffusion model's input, and some approaches pass in text information in multiple ways at once. Now it turns out that conditioning alone is not enough to achieve the level of prompt adherence that we see in models like DALI2. If we take the stable diffusion tree in the desert example we've been experimenting with, and only condition our model with our text inputs, the model no longer gives us everything we ask for. We get a shadow in a desert, but no tree. Note that stable diffusion was developed by a team at Heidelberg University around the same time as DALI2, and works in a similar way, but is open source. It turns out that there's one more powerful idea that we need to effectively steer our diffusion models. We can see this idea in action by returning to our toy dataset one last time. If our overall spiral corresponds to realistic images, then different sections of our spiral may correspond to different types of images. Let's say this inner part is images of people, this middle part is images of dogs, and this outer part is different images of cats. Now let's train the same diffusion model we trained earlier, but in addition to passing in our starting coordinates and the time of our diffusion process, we'll also pass in the points class. Person, cat, or dog. This extra signal should allow our model to steer points to the right sections of our spiral, based on each points class. Running our generation process, after assigning person, dog, or cat labels to each point, we see that we're able to recover the overall structure of our dataset, but the fit is not great, and we see some confusion here between people and dog images. Part of the problem here is that we're asking our model to simultaneously learn to point to our overall spiral of realistic images, and toward specific classes on our spiral. If we consider this cat point for example, it starts off heading towards the center of our spiral, and as our class conditioned vector field shifts to point towards a cat region of our spiral, our point moves towards this part of the spiral, but it doesn't quite make it. The modeling task of generally matching our overall spiral has overpowered our model's ability to move our point in the direction of a specific class. Now, is there a way to decouple and maybe even control these two factors? Remarkably, it turns out that we can. The trick is to leverage the differences between the unconditional model that is not trained on a specific class, and a model that is conditioned on specific classes. We could do this by training two separate models, but in practice it's more efficient to just leave out the class information for a subset of our training examples. We now have the option of effectively passing in no class or text information into our model, and getting back a vector field that points towards our data in general, not towards any specific class. We can visualize these two vector fields together. Here the gray vectors show our diffusion model points when we don't pass in any class information, and these yellow vectors show when our model is conditioned on the cat class. For large values of our diffusion time variable when our training data is far from our spiral, our two vector fields basically point in the same direction, roughly towards the average of our spiral. But as time approaches zero, our vector fields diverge, with our cat conditioned vector field pointing more towards the outer cat portion of our spiral. Now that we have these two separate directions, we can use their differences to push our points more in the direction of the class we want. Specifically, we take our yellow class conditioned vector and subtract our gray unconditioned vector. This gives us a new vector pointing from the tip of our unconditioned vector to the tip of our conditioned vector. The idea from here is that this direction should point more in the direction of our cat examples, now that we've removed the direction generally pointing towards our data. We can now amplify this direction by multiplying by a scaling factor, alpha, and replace our original conditioned yellow vector with a vector pointing in this new direction. Let's follow the trajectory of the same cat point we saw earlier that didn't quite make it onto our spiral. We'll roll back our diffusion time variable and start a new green point from the same starting location. If we use our new green vectors to guide the diffusion process instead of our original yellow vectors, the difference between our gray arrows that point towards the center of our spiral and yellow vectors that start pointing us back towards our cat part of the spiral are amplified, now guiding our point to land nicely on our spiral. This approach is called classifier-free guidance. Using our new green vectors to guide a set of cat points, we see a nice tight fit to our spiral for this class. Switching to our dog class, our unconditional gray vector field stays the same, but our dog conditioned model outputs, shown in magenta, now point us more towards the dog part of our spiral. And adding guidance amplifies this learned direction. Using our guided vectors and running our generation process, we see a nice fit for our dog points. Finally, we get a third vector field for our people examples that again results in nice convergence to our spiral. Classifier-free guidance works remarkably well and has become an essential part of many modern image and video generation models. Earlier, we saw that if we only conditioned our stable diffusion model, our image would have a desert and a shadow, but no tree that we asked for in the prompt. If we add classifier-free guidance to this model, once we reach a guidance scale alpha of around 2, we start to actually see a tiny tree in our images. And the size and detail of our tree improve as we increase our scaling factor, alpha. The fact that this works so well is remarkable to me. As we use guidance to point our stable diffusion model's vector field more in the direction of our prompt, our tree literally grows in size and detail in our images. Our WAN video generation model takes this guidance approach one step further. Instead of subtracting the output of an unconditioned model with no text input, the WAN team uses what's known as a negative prompt, where they specifically write out all the features they don't want in their video, and then subtract the resulting vector from the model's conditioned output and amplify the result, steering the diffusion process away from these unwanted features. Their standard negative prompt is fascinating, including features like extra fingers and walking backwards, and interestingly is actually passed into their text encoder in Chinese. Here's a video generated using the same astronaut on a horse prompt we used earlier, but without the negative prompt. It's really interesting to see how the parts of the scene get cartoonish and no longer fit together. Since the publication of the DDPM paper in the summer of 2020, the field has