Kind: captions Language: en Over the last few years, AI systems have become astonishingly good at turning text props into videos. At the core of how these models operate is a deep connection to physics. This generation of image and video models works using a process known as diffusion, which is remarkably equivalent to the Brownian motion we see as particles diffuse, but with time run backwards, and in high-dimensional space. As we'll see, this connection to physics is much more than a curiosity. We get real algorithms out of the physics that we can use to generate images and videos. And this perspective will also give us some really nice intuitions for how these models work in practice. But before we dive into this connection, let's get hands-on with a real diffusion model. While the best models are closed source, there are some compelling open source models. This video of an astronaut was generated by an open source model called WAN 2.1. We can add to our prompt and have our astronaut hold a flag, hold a laptop, or hold a meeting. If we cut down our prompt to just an astronaut, we get this. And if we cut down our prompt to nothing, we interestingly still get this video of a woman. If we dig into our WAN model's source code, we'll find that the video generation process begins with this call to a random number generator. Creating a video where the pixel intensity values are chosen randomly. Here's what it looks like. From here, this pure noise video is passed into a transformer. This is the same type of AI model used by large language models, like ChatGPT. But instead of outputting text, this transformer outputs another video that now looks like this. Still mostly noise, but with some hints of structure. This new video is added to our pure noise video, and then passed back into the model again, producing a third video that looks like this. This process is repeated again and again. Here's what the video looks like after 5 iterations, 10, 20, 30, 40, and finally 50. Step by step, our transformer shapes pure noise into incredibly realistic video. But what exactly is the connection to Brownian motion here? And how is our model able to use text input so expressively to shape noise into what our prompt describes? In this video, we'll impact diffusion models in 3 parts. First we'll look at a 2021 OpenAI paper and model called CLIP. As we'll see, CLIP is really two models, a language model and a vision model, that are trained using a clever learning objective that allows them to learn this really powerful shared space between words and pictures. Experimenting with this space will help us get a feel for the high dimensional spaces that diffusion models operate in. But learning a shared representation is not enough to generate images. From here we'll look at the diffusion process itself. At a high level, diffusion models are trained to remove noise from images or videos. However, if you dig into the landmark papers in the field, you'll find that this naive understanding of diffusion really doesn't hold up in practice. In this section we'll dig into the connection between diffusion models and diffusion processes in physics. This connection will help us understand how these models really work in practice and give us some powerful theory for dramatically speeding up image and video generation. Finally, we'll bring these worlds together and see how approaches like CLIP are combined with diffusion models to condition and guide the generation process towards the videos we ask for in our prompts. 2020 was a landmark year for language modeling. New results in neural scaling laws and OpenAI's GPT-3 showed that bigger really was better. Massive models trained on massive datasets had capabilities that simply didn't exist in smaller models. It didn't take long for researchers to apply similar ideas to images. In February 2021, a team at OpenAI released a new model architecture called CLIP, trained on a dataset of 400 million image and caption pairs scraped from the internet. CLIP is composed of two models, one that processes text and one that processes images. The output of each of these models is a vector of length 512, and the central idea is that the vectors for a given image and its captions should be similar. To achieve this, the OpenAI team developed a clever training approach. Given a batch of image-caption pairs, for example our batch could contain a picture of a cat, a dog, and me, with the captions a photo of a cat, a photo of a dog, and a photo of a man, we then pass our three images into our image model, and our three captions into our text model. We now have three image vectors and three text vectors, and we would like the vectors for the matching image-caption pairs to be similar. The clever idea from here is to make use of the similarity not just between the corresponding images and captions, but between all image-caption pairs in the batch when training our models. If we arrange our image vectors as the columns of a matrix, and our text vectors as the rows, the pairs of vectors along the diagonal of our matrix correspond to matching images and captions. And all the pairs off-diagonal are non-matching images and captions. The CLIP training objective seeks to maximize the similarity between corresponding image-caption pairs, while simultaneously minimizing the similarity between non-corresponding image-caption pairs. The C in CLIP stands for contrastive, because the model learns to contrast matching and non-matching image-caption pairs. The CLIP algorithm measures similarity between vectors using a metric called cosine similarity. Geometrically, we can think of each of these vectors as pointing in some direction in high-dimensional space. Cosine similarity measures the cosine of the angle between our vectors in this space. So if our text and image vector point in the same direction, the angle between our vectors will be zero, resulting in a maximum value for our cosine similarity score of 1. So the image and text models that make up CLIP are trained to maximize the alignment of related images and captions in this shared high-dimensional space, while minimizing the alignment between unrelated images and captions. The learned geometry of this shared vector space, known as a latent or embedding space, has some really interesting properties. If I take two pictures of myself, one not wearing a hat and one wearing a hat, and pass both of these into our CLIP image model, we get two vectors in our embedding space. Now if I take the vector corresponding to me wearing a hat, and subtract the vector of me not wearing a hat, we get a new vector in our embedding space. Now what text might this new vector correspond to? Mathematically we took the difference of me wearing a hat and me not wearing a hat. We can search for corresponding text by passing a bunch of different words into our text encoder, and for each computing the cosine similarity between our newly computed difference vector and the text vector. Testing a set of a few hundred common words, the top ranked match with a similarity of 0.165 is the word hat, followed by cap and helmet. This is a remarkable result. The learned geometry of CLIP's embedding space allows us to operate mathematically on the pure ideas or concepts in our images and text, translating the differences in the content of our images, like if there's a hat or not, into a literal distance between vectors in our embedding space. The OpenAI team showed that CLIP could produce very impressive image classification results by simply passing an image into our image encoder, and then comparing the resulting vector to a set of possible captions, one for each label that could be assigned to the image, and classifying the image with whatever label resulted in the highest cosine similarity. So techniques like CLIP give us a powerful shared representation of image and text, a kind of vector space of pure ideas. However, our CLIP models only go one direction. We can only map image and text to our shared embedding space. We have no way of generating images and text from our embedding vectors. 2020 turned out not only to be a transformative year for language modeling. A few weeks after the GPT-3 paper came out, a team at Berkeley published a paper called Denoising Diffusion Probabilistic Models, now known as DDPM. The paper showed for the first time that it was possible to generate very high quality images using a diffusion process, where pure noise is transformed step by step into realistic images. The core idea behind diffusion models is pretty straightforward. We take a set of training images and add noise to each image step by step until the image is completely destroyed. From here we train a neural network to reverse this process. When I first learned about diffusion models, I assumed that the models would be trained to remove noise a single step at a time. Our model would be trained to predict the image in step 1 given the noisier image in step 2, trained to predict the image in step 2 given the noisier image in step 3, and so on. When it came time to generate an image, we would pass pure noise into our model, take its output and pass it back into its input again and again, and after enough steps we would have a nice image. Now, it turns out that this naive approach to building a diffusion model really does not work well. Virtually no modern models work like this. These are the training and image generation algorithms from the Berkeley team's paper. The notation is a bit dense, but there's some key details we can pull out that will help us understand what it takes to make these models really work. The first thing that surprised me is that the team added random noise to images not just during training, but also during image generation. Algorithm 2 tells us that when generating new images, at each step, after our neural network predicts a less noisy image, we need to add random noise to this image before passing it back into our model. This added noise turns out to matter a lot in practice. If we take a popular diffusion model like stable diffusion 2 and use the Berkeley team's image generation approach, known as DDPM sampling, we can get some really nice images. Here's the image we get when prompting the model with this prompt, asking for a tree in the desert. Now, if we remove the line of code that adds noise at each step of the generation process, we end up with a tiny sad blurry tree. How is it that adding random noise while generating images leads to better quality, sharper images? The second thing that surprised me when I encountered the Berkeley team's approach was that the team wasn't training models to reverse a single step in the noise addition process. Instead, the team takes an initial clean image, which they call X0, and adds scaled random noise to the image, which they call epsilon. And from here, they train the model to predict the total noise that was added to the original image. So the team is effectively asking the model to skip all the intermediate steps and make a prediction about the original image. Intuitively, this learning task seems much more difficult to me than just learning to make a noisy image slightly less noisy. The Berkeley team's paper and approach was a landmark result that put diffusion on the map. Why does adding random noise while generating images and training the model like this work so well? The DDPM paper draws on some fairly complex theory to arrive at these algorithms. I'll include a link to a great tutorial in the description if you want to dig deeper into the theory. Happily, it turns out that there's a different but mathematically equivalent way of understanding what diffusion models are really learning that we can use to get a visual and intuitive sense for why the DDPM algorithms work so well. The key will be thinking of diffusion models as learning a time-varying vector field. This perspective also leads to a more general approach called flow-based models, which have become very popular recently. To see how diffusion models learn this time-varying vector field, let's temporarily simplify our learning problem. One way to think about an image is as a point in high-dimensional space, where the intensity value of each pixel controls the position of the point in each dimension. If we reduce the size of our images to only two pixels, we can visualize the distribution of our images by plotting the pixel intensity value of our first pixel on the x-axis of scatterplot and the pixel intensity of our second pixel on the y-axis. So an image with a black first pixel and a white second pixel would show up at x equals zero and y equals one on our scatterplot. And an all-white image would be at one, one, and so on. Now, real images have a very specific structure in this high-dimensional space. Let's create some structure for our points in our lower two-dimensional space for our diffusion model to learn. The exact structure we choose doesn't matter too much at this point. Let's start with a spiral shape like this. The core idea of diffusion models, adding more and more noise to an image and then training a neural network to reverse this process, looks really interesting from the perspective of our 2D toy data. When we add random noise to an image, we're effectively changing each pixel's value by a random amount. In our toy 2D dataset, where the coordinates of a point correspond to that image's pixel intensity values, adding random noise is equivalent to taking a step in a randomly chosen direction. As we add more and more noise to our image, our point goes on a random walk. This process is equivalent to the Brownian motion that drives diffusion processes in physics and is where diffusion models get their name. From here, it's pretty wild to think about what we're asking our diffusion model to do. Our model will see many different random walks from various starting points in our dataset, and we're effectively asking our model to reverse the clock, removing noise from our images by letting it play these diffusion processes backwards, starting our points from random locations and recovering the original structure of our dataset. How can our model learn to reverse these random walks? If we consider the specific point at the end of this 100-step random walk, in our naive diffusion modeling approach, where we ask our model to denoise images a single step at a time, this is equivalent to giving our model the coordinates of the final 100th point in our walk, and asking our model to predict the coordinates of our point at the 99th step. Although the direction of our 100th step is chosen randomly, there will be some signal in aggregate for our model to learn from here. Given enough training points, we expect many diffusion paths to go through this neighborhood, and on average our points will be diffusing away from our starting spiral, so our model can learn to point back towards our spiral. We can now see why the Berkeley team's training objective works so well. Instead of training the model to remove noise from images one step at a time, this would correspond to predicting the coordinates of the 99th step given the 100th, the team instead trained the model to predict the total noise added across the entire walk. On our plot, this is the vector pointing from our 100th step back to the original starting point of the walk. It turns out that we can prove that learning to predict the noise added in the final step of our walk is mathematically equivalent to learning to predict the total noise added, divided by the number of steps taken. This means that when our model learns to reverse a single step, although our training data is noisy, we expect our model to ultimately learn to point back towards x0. By instead training our model to directly predict the vector pointing back towards x0, we're significantly reducing the variance of our training examples, allowing our model to learn much more efficiently, without actually changing our underlying learning objective. So for each point in our space, our model learns the direction pointing back towards the original data distribution. This is also known as a score function, and the intuition here is that the score function points us towards more likely, less noisy data. Now, in practice, these learned directions depend heavily on how much noise we add to our original data. After 100 steps, most of our points are far from their starting points, so our model learns to move these points back in the general direction of our spiral. However, if we train our model on examples after only one diffusion step, we end up with a much more nuanced vector field, pointing to the fine structure of our spiral. There turns out to be a clever solution to this problem. Instead of just passing in the coordinates of our point into our model, which we'll write here as a function f, we can also pass in a time variable that corresponds to the number of steps taken in our random walk. If we set t equal to 1 at our 100th step, then t would equal 0.99 at our 99th step, and so on. Conditioning our models on time like this turns out to be essential in