the engineering part system. So we went to an automotive manufacturer who built an LLM based web application just like this where they basically took a whole bunch of systems and tied them together with LLMs and this application, our only input was this search bar here. It's not even a chat bot, it's just a search form. One of the first things you do is try to get out the system prompt. And this one doesn't have any protection applied to it. There's no firewall in front. So the first thing it does is it'll tell you a car joke and then it'll print the system prompt. So there's a Jira key for ENG parts and then a project access token here and then a CTF flag. So this is your first flag here. Not going to give away all the flags, but this system was a chained version of L lm. So there's multiple LMS in this system, and right now we've managed to leak the system prompt from the first LLM in the chain, but there's multiple LLMs in this chain. There's multiple. LLMs. So we've only hacked the front door, but we got API keys from a search bar. What happens. If we use them? We can take these. Okay, well what if we just stuff them back in the search? Does it do anything? What we know is that from doing so many tests that a lot of times what customers do when they're using LLMs, they're hiding information. We can just ask for something like full info. So now we get more information in our specification data, then we get a patent number, we get a patent owner, we get an owner address, we get a purchase price for the patent licensing terms, et cetera. So all of this is secret data that we didn't have before. That comes from the rag, the retrieval augmented generation database where all the documents are stored and then some secret stuff in here, confidential. Now when we did the pen test for this, our actual finding to the customer was like, we can see all of this crazy debug information and patent number and patent acquisition information. So this is out of a real test case that we did for customers and they appreciated the fact that we could show them how to get to this kind of stuff. Okay, did you see all that? A lot of stuff just happened. We took an innocent search bar, leaked a system, prompt found API keys just sitting there waiting to be taken. And then we stuff them back in and expose patent data, acquisition costs, licensing terms, corporate secrets from the rag database. This is what real AI pen testing looks like and that's what companies have to lose. They're implementing all these crazy AI solutions, which are amazing and they solve real problems, but they create real problems. So when we're talking about hacking ai, we're not just making Chad BT say bad words. As much fun as that is, we're hacking real systems and getting competitive intelligence. So Jason just gave us a little taste, but how hard is this really? Jason has a story. Now I know what you're thinking, Chuck. This feels very hard and intense and I'm feeling the same thing. Do we have to be an elite hacker to do this? No, you don't. Jason told me about something that happened at Bayside San Francisco. So we have a great story about this one. So we ran this at Bayside San Francisco last year, and so we're running this at the Bug bounty village that we're hosting. Most of my students who take my class, it takes them a week to get through this whole CTF or maybe a little bit less. Some people who are really good, who are professionals already can get through this in an hour, but we had a young man who was I believe 12 come up to the table and his mom during COVID, she was an application security engineer. She had been sent home to work from home. He wasn't in school during COVID. And so he was learning from his mom how to do security stuff just because he was bored. And so he had done all kinds of web hacking stuff. And so he came down and we basically said, anybody who could solve it within an hour at the table got a free class or whatever. So he sat down, he got the first flag instantly, and then he got the second flag in 10 minutes, and then he got the third flag in I think 20 minutes. And then he had solved all flags within 35 minutes or something like that. I don't know who this kid is, but 35 minutes versus everyone else taking a week. That's crazy. People who grow up in this new world where AI apps are everywhere, that'll be second nature for them to understand how to trick some of these AI systems. So if you're watching this and you're like, ah, I don't know if I can do this, I'm not quite ready, no bull crap. You can, a 12-year-old did it. Now this stuff isn't easy by any means, but the barrier to entry is a lot lower. So where does that put you? So I asked Jason this, if someone completes the CTF, he has that he made the auto parts CTF, where does that put them? Skill level wise. If you can get through this, you're at the end part of, I would say entry level. Now to get into intermediate and advanced, what you have to understand is understanding how to bypass all those security controls because they're usually the bottlenecks in attacking the agents or attacking the system. Did. You just say entry level? That's crazy, dude, maybe this is kind of hard. So here's your map, Gandalf, steal some candy from that baby. Get his password continually down. Your entry level journey attack agent breaker. Don't get discouraged. It's pretty hard. But when you finally get that LLM to bend to your will, oh, that feels so good. And then tackle that real world scenario that Jason and his team made, the auto parts CTF. At this point, you can start tackling more immediate things like bypassing security controls and all the stuff we see in the resource hub. Try them all or like this one, this fire advanced one that's terrifying. But you can also start doing competitions and get recognized or do bug bounties, get paid for hacking ai. Shoot, apply for a few jobs. This is a new space, a ton of opportunity. Call yourself an AI hacker, an AI pin tester entry level. That's the key right now you're still entry level. Where do you go from there? That's a journey we're going to keep talking about in part three. It's also where we're going to talk about the tools that the elite AI pin testers and hackers are using right now. Jason showed me something called Parcel Tongue, a tool the bossy group uses to bypass AI security controls. So you don't want to miss part three. And this is a plug I want you to go watch. Make sure you're subscribed to the notification bell comment, got to hack YouTube ethically, of course. And don't forget to show Jason some love. He does offer a ton of free stuff out there, but he also has official courses too, teaching you soup to nuts, how to do all this crazy AI hacking stuff, which is still brand new. Anyways, here's your homework. Do Baby Gandalf if you haven't already done that, do agent breaker and then the auto parts L-L-M-C-T-F. See if you can beat the 12 year old's time and see if you can beat my 265 attempts on that first level of age a breaker. Oh my gosh. Anyway, see you in part three. Hey, you're still here at the end of my videos. I like to pray for you. My audience, I believe in the power of prayer and I do genuinely love you guys. So I'm going to pray for you right now. I know it's weird, that's why it's at the end. You can click off or you can just hang out for a moment and see how weird it gets. That was weird. Let's pray. God, I thank you for the person on the other side of this camera, this screen. I thank you that they're here. I appreciate them and I appreciate them as a person and who they are and I'm just thankful for them. I ask that you bless them indeed today, that you would take this knowledge they have, that they learned from this video. And I hope that this will light a fire in them, that it'll just give them something to pursue, that they'll be excited about it and that they'll be given the discipline to follow through, give them clarity in their lives, give them clarity in their jobs and their careers. And I pray for success over them and their family. Just bless them and their families right now. Breathe life and to their studies. Give them peace. Help them with their anxiety right now. If they're struggling with something that they just can't get past, you know who they are. They know who they are, and God, I just ask in your name that you release that from them, that you give them a way out, give them a path forward. I ask this in your name. Jesus, we thank you and we love you for everything that's in your name I pray. Amen. Alright, catch you guys next time.