for Clawbot to updatethe old article to improve the workflow,etc. So, you can see here it's typingnow.And then what it would do is update theblog right here cuz the instructionshere are not that good. Code Jim says Ishould set that up rather than slouchingover a computer. Yeah, would recommend.It's helped me a lot. It's helping me alot for sure. Have you been keeping aneye on token burn using Claudebot? Itburned through mine. I've already talkedabout both those things. But yeah, sothat's why I set up Kim K 2.5 cuz it's alot cheaper. And then alsowhen it comes to the security stuff,I've already mentioned that as well. Iactually did a full video as well on it.At says, which platform to use for yourAI avatar? And so if you want to learnhow to create AI avatar videos using myprocess, check out the AI profitableborder right here. And if you go down tothe AI avatar video section, we have afull section on how to set up AI avatarvideos. And also for the screen sharevideos that we automate with AI, you cancheck out the whole process right here.So this is the full process, fullstep-by-step guide on how to use it.That's inside the arprofit boarding. Youcan just go to arprofitboard.comto check that out and get access. Allright, so thanks so much for watching.That is how to set up Kimik K 2.5 withClawbot. You saw you saw I set it uptoday. We're using Kim K 2.5 becauseit's cheaper for tokens and then also Ican give it like sub agents to work onin the background with Kim K 2.5 whilstI use chat codeex for everything else.Right. If you want to get the full setupguide and instructions, you can get itinside the profit boardroom. Just go tothe SP update section right here. We'vegot a full section on Clawbot, how toset up, how to do all the stuff thatI've set up with as well directly. Andyou can get all of my best trainers onthat right here. Inside the community,you can ask any questions, get help, getsupport whenever you need it. So, if wego to the community section here, youcan post questions. And you can see it'sa super active community where we justhelp each other out. Additionally,inside the action taker section here,you can see that you can post your goalsand um stay laser focused, avoidinformation overload, avoid shiny objectsyndrome, and just say, "Right, here'swhat I'm going to do today. Hold meaccountable." And that's what thisaccountability group is about.Additionally, you can jump on fourcoaching courses per week inside the ARprofit boardroom. And then also insidethe classroom here, you can get all ofmy best trainers. So, if you want to gofrom like complete beginner to expertwith AI automation, we got a fullstep-by-step course right here. and youcan learn how to build your first AIagent in under 5 minutes. Additionally,you can see that inside the classroom,we have full trainings on all of my bestprocesses. So, for example, like avatarvideos and everything else. And thenalso inside the classroom here, you canlearn how to get more clients. You canwatch about the coaching calls if youcan't make them. You can see our best AISEO automation. So, how to rank insideAI search engines and then also how todo YouTube AI. So, that's all inside theAI profitable boarding. Plus, you canconnect with me personally and directmessage me whenever you want to. NBAsays, "What's Genie?" That is a newupdate from Google that we'll come on toin a second. I really need AI to assistme be organized, stay on track. I haveso many ideas. Yeah, it's so good forthat. And then, thanks so much for yourtime. I'm heavily subscribed with alertsand heavily considering joining school.Awesome. Welcome. So if you go back toclawbot now as wellis publishedthe article as you can see step by stephere and we're good to go on that.Pretty nice. So today we're going to bechecking out molt worker which is amiddleware worker that can use maltbotwhich was formerly known as clawbotdirectly inside cloudflare's sandboxSDK. Right. So, a lot of people areworried about security when it comes toClawbot and, you know, how it connectswith the world, etc. And so, I'm goingto test this out and see how thisperforms. We've got the full blog overhere. I want to see how easy ordifficult it is to set up as well. Andwe've got the full step-by-stepinstructions right here. So, here's someexamples. I mean, one of there's a fewsecurity issues with Clawbot, right? So,number one is the issue. Actually, I'mgoing to summarize this because it'ssuper long article. One of the biggestissues, of course, is that if you're ona VPS, well, someone could get access tothe VPS and then, you know, they canaccess your clawbot. That's not a goodidea. The other option is that somepeople could email any sort of emailaccount that you've connected to Clawbotand then use prompt injection to to getaccess to it. Both of those are prettybad, right? Both of those are badscenarios. So, we don't want that. Whatwe're going to do instead is we're goingto try this method using malt worker.I'm going to say how to set this up.It'd be good if they just gave you theinstructions on exactly how to set upstraight away. That would be way wayeasier. The code says, "Thanks forcovering Cloudflare. I was starting tolook into this." Yeah, me too. I want tocheck this out. I think this will be agood one. So, quick setup. Here's how wecan install it. And you can see it'sactually a GitHub right here. So, thisis the GitHub that you can use to set itup. And we have to get the workers paidplan, I think, to to get this set up.So, I'm just going totry this out. And we need to sign up tothe workers account. I will do that foryou peeps. Let me do that in thebackground. And we have signed up now.So you can see we've upgraded to theworkers plan. That was nice and easy.And now we need to get started withthis. Right. Sowe're going to get started with settingup Malt worker. Open this up in newterminal. And we're going to start bycloning the git clone. From there, weneed to set up the API key. So, I'm justgoing to go to console.anthropic in thebackground and set this up.So, you can get an API key here. Youjust go to API keys down there and thencreate keylike this.and then we need todo MPX wrangler secret put anthropic APIkey and then once you've done thatinside terminal so once you follow theterminal commands it will look somethinglike this as you can see all right soyou've got read here's what we'reallowing it to do here's what it can dowe're going to click on allow here Andwe have now allowed that directly. Nowwe need to grab this stufffrom our terminal. So I'm just going todo that in the background too.And then we should be able to deploythat directly with Cloudflare. PM says,"Bro, I thought you said Maltbot was GGand hype." No, no. I I always said it'sgood. The first time I tried it, Icouldn't get my head around it and Ithought it was hype, but after that, no.I've absolutely loved it. Um, I've beencovering it every day on live streamsand showing all the cool stuff that Icould do with it. So, it's prettyamazing. And then also, what we need todo is install Docker. So, I'm just doingthat in the background, too.using terminal. It's just downloadingDocker and installing it to my Macand then from there we can npm deploy itagain. Is there a replay? I just seen anotification 2 hours ago. Yeah, just goto YouTube, go to the stream section andyou'll see it right there. So you canalways replay it and watch it back. SEOsays come to Malaysia. I actually Ihaven't drunk forpretty much 11 years now. I don't Idon't drink at all. Only protein shakes.All right. So, we've nowset it up, I think. Let me just have alook here in the background. Just goingto take the files from terminal and justcheck if it's okay or not.I think we're going to have to open upDocker, too. And uh Claude is justshowing my API key on the live stream.Thank you, mate, for putting that in thechat. Why did it do that? That's crazy.All right, Almac says, "How aboutsecurity issues and maltbot have beengoing about even when installed on othermachines? That's why we're using uhclawbot and mobile with Cloudflare todayto see how malt worker performs." Ididn't like the name Clawbot until theyrenamed it. I would agree. I think thenew name is really bad. Really bad. So,we got to set up the API key, generate agateway token, deploy, and set upCloudflare access. All right, one sec.And then what we also need to do isenable R2 storage apparently. So, we'lladd that in.We do get 10 GB free monthly. Not bad.Says there's something called Remotion.People told that it can automate editingwith Claude. Yeah, I've already coveredthat inside the AR profit boardroom. Butbasically all you do is like you goinside Claude here and you say, "Okay,install the remotion skillfor videos,right? And then basically using Clawbot,you can install this skill from GitHuband uh and start coding out that way."Now, it also says inside Claw Code R2 isnow working. You need to set up aworkers.dev subdomain. So go to workersand pages in your Cloudflareuh sidebar under compute and AI. So hereworkers and pages and then I think we'regood to go on thatand now it should be deploying that. Soyou can see here we've got mobilesandbox set up on the workers and pagessection inside Cloudflare. By the way,if anyone's watching this and thinking,"Oh yeah, Cloudflare have created maltworkers. It must be easy to set up." Itdoesn't seem easy at all. Like it itseems like a lot of technical workhonestly. Just going to warn you now.And this is a website it should bedeployed at once it's fully built out.So you can see here I've taken the clawcodeand it says it's working. is just slow.The deploy is pushing Docker containerlayers to Cloudflare. This is acontainer image loading. Takes about 3to 5 minutes first time. Just wait forit to finish.And that so far has taken 3 or 4 minutesjust to set up. And now you can see thatMalt worker is beginning to be set up.We just need to set up the tokens as youcan see right here. But we're muchcloser to getting that set up. andthat's set up on the mobile sandbox. Youmight be wondering, okay, like why wouldyou use Cloudflare versus um hosting itlocally or hosting it on a VPS, right?So, let's talk about that. So,a mobile is like a personal assistantrunning 24/7, right? So, the old waywould be like you buy a computer, put itin your house, the assistant livesthere, you're responsible for lockingthe doors, paying the electricity, etc.,right? The new way is like malt workeron Cloudflare is like instead of usingyour house, the assistant works from amassive secure office building thatCloudflare owns, right? And you just paythe rent. And so the security is betterbecause it has zero trust access to tokeep it more secure. It's got likeisolated sandboxes for each uh task asyou can see. So each task runs in itsown sandboxand if something goes wrong, it can'tspread, right? Whereas, for example, ifyou're using your own setup, everythingis shared in the same space. Also,there's no keys lying around. So, ifyou've heard about it already, Clawbotoften has these kongy files in likeplain text with your API key stored,which is not great. And then Cloudflare,like the whole point of Cloudflare issecurity, right? So, they protect prettymuch half the internet, whereas forexample, your Mac like sitting in yourapartment probably not as secure, right?Same with VPS where anyone can scrapethe website and then um get access tothe gateway. So it's it's just a muchmore secure way of doing this. So let'sgo back to the setup now.We see where we're at. So we need to setup this as you can seefor the admin UI. How is everyonemanaging their token usage with mobile?So I'm using codeex CLIand I also set up Kimmy K2.5. I also gota video on alarm. So if you want to runa model locally with Olama then you cando that and then from there you canuse OAMA for free running it locallywith clawbot as well. So that's anotherway. So in terms of like what's workingbest for me chat GPT codeex CLI with OFthen from thereusing Kimmy K2.5 for sub aents and thenif you really need to you can use Lamalocally um for sub agents as well. Nowwhat we're doing from here is we had toenable inside the workers and pagessection. So if you go to computer and AIworkers and pages um settings and thenyou want to make sure that forworkers.dev you toggle on cloudflareaccess like you can see it's quiteimportant. Then you'll get a key uhaudience key and you just plug that backintoum claw code if you're setting up withthat directly. Now, what you'll see onthis address is that we'll get a logincode emailed to us so that it's securebefore anyone can log in. So, they needhave their email set up um and get acode before they can log in directly.So, previously the page looked like thisand now we've got a page where we haveto add our email address before peoplecan log in. Right? So,going to do that in the background.Then, it's going to add a container likeyou can see. So I emailed a code to myemail address, use that code to log intoMalt worker. Everything is siloed awayinside the containerand that's probably a better way ofusing it to be honest. I feel betterabout using that, right? Uh client flowsays so buying a Mac Mini is pointless.Depends how you want to do it, but forme like this is this is working uhnicely already. And now we've loggedinto mobile sandbox like you can see,right? Um and we just need to set up ourtoken. But this is what it will looklike once it's logged in. Did you use afree tier for Cloudflare? So, I thinkit's like $5 to get access to this,something like that. But Tim says, "Iasked anti-gravity if I could set it upwith old laptop and install."Interesting. Yeah, I think you could.There's many ways you can set up like anold laptop works perfectly. I think Ithink what we need to do to fix thisproblem isjust make sure that we switch the APIkey, which I'm doing in the background.My claw code. And now, boom. Shakalaka,we're in. Um, and you can see it's setup. So, the health is okay. It's all setup right here. Um, this is Clawbot readyto go. I'm not going to lie to you, thatwas the hardest thing that I've evertried with um, setting up Clawbot. So,if you're looking for an easy way to setup Clawbot, Malt worker is not the one.But if you're looking for one of themost secure ways to set up, it's prettygood. It's pretty good. Let me give youan example, right? So you can see herefor example we can go to mobile adminlike you can see and then we canactually see which devices are pairedand you can approve devices before theycan actually log in. So just to recaphere with Cloudflare and Molt Worker,number one takes quite a long time toset up. But once it is, you log in,you set your own API key, and then youapprove login before people can go in.Plus, they have to use an email andlogin with a code from that emailaddress before they can log in. So it'sit's quite nice because everything issandboxed away with Docker. It's nothosted locally. It's not hosted on a VPSand the only way people can get accessis like you approve them first via theadmin pairing requests and then oncethat's done then they can get back inotherwise they can't get in at all rightwhich is pretty cool. Sothanks so much for watching. If you wantto get a full guide on setting this upwhat I've actually done is plugged in afull guide inside the AI profitboardroom on how to set up malt worker.So if you want to set this up in asandboxed environment that's much moresecure and you still want to use clawbotthen I've walked you through the wholeprocess right there. This is inside thearprofit boredom community. You can getaccess link in the comments descriptionor go to aripitbedom.com.And then from here you actually getaccess to a community of 2,200 members.We have a daily accountability group forgetting stuff done. Inside theclassroom, we have a full uh we haveloads of trainings on clawbot mobile,including how to set up malt worker,which I would recommend if you'reworried about security, like that'sprobably a great way to set it up,right? Um Cloudflare, they have one job,which is keeping things secure. Um thisway you can run things via Docker in asandbox. Um and you approve logininsbefore anyone can get access to it,right? And that's all inside the ARprofit boarding. We also have a full3-hour course on exactly how to use thisstuff. So, if you go tothis section, you'll see a full 3-hourcourse. Shows you how I create avatarvideos with Moldbot. How I create voiceclones, voice notes, how I monitorYouTube and run it 24/7 to give mealerts when competitors create outliervideos. Analyze my own YouTube channel,gives me alerts and reports, and thatsort of thing. I've connected it toWordPress, Telegram, Notion. Um,anything that you can think of, you canbasically do with mobile. It'sabsolutely insane. And then also if youwant to get all of my best playbooks, uhprocesses, systems, etc. That's allinside the AR profit boredom too. We dofour weekly coaching calls where you canjump on the calls and ask um anyquestions, meet the community, get helpand support whenever you need it. If yougo inside the map here, you can connectwith people in your local area, which ispretty amazing. You can see that we have2,200 members all over the world, whichis awesome. And then also inside theclassroom here, you can learn how to getmore clients with our agency course, howto rank number one inside AI searchengines, how to grow a YouTube channelwith AI, all based on what's working forme right now. So feel free to get thatlink in the comments in description.Mbot plus Kimmy 2.5 is insane. Molbbotjust got crazy powerful. I hooked it upto