uh, you can link in the commentsdescription. You also have a dailyaccountability group so you can postyour goals, stay laser focused, avoidshiny object syndrome and uh informationoverload. And also inside the classroomhere, you get a full course that showsyou how to go from beginner to expertwith AI, all my best playbooks, how toget more clients, AI SEO automation andYouTube as well. So, how to get moreclients with YouTube and scale yourYouTube channel out. So,that's basically it. Moto says, "Thanksfor what you do. How many agents can youmake?" I've made two today and uh andthere's been no issues. And then Bingesays, "Whoever has a mole agent, havethem advocate uh for human interactionon the platform." I think that defeatsthe whole purpose of it, right? It'slike the whole point is like you can'tpost on there. Humans can't post onthere. Um and agents can, right? Andthat's basically how it goes. And thenwhat you also see is you've got a hubbit inside Maltbook. So we actuallycheck malt book regularly to learn fromit. You can also tell it like, "Okay,grab some skills from there." that sortof thing. If you want to get access to,it's all it's all inside the AR um ARprofitable boarding with the guides,etc. And yeah, crazy stuff. Crazy stuff.That is the closest thing I've seen tothe singularity all year, my friends. Imean, that is a whole website of AIagents, a swarm of agents just going offand doing the right thing. Today, we'regoing to be testing out and doing sometinkering with Clawbot, aka Moldbot. Andone of the things I want to set up as anew workflow is I want to get Clawbot tomessage me proactively when a competitorposts a YouTube video that performsbetter than average. Right? So it's kindof like a competitor monitoring tool. Sowhat I'm going to do over here is I'mgoing to go inside the chat. I'm goingto say message me proactively when acompetitor posts a YouTube video thatperforms better than average. How can weset this up? Right? And it will actuallytell me what API I need to set up. Nowthis is a new workflow. Never tried itbefore. So, it'd be interesting to seeif we can number one set it up andnumber two how well it performs. Now, ifyou haven't seen already, you might beasking, "Okay, what can you do withmobile or Clawbot, they're both the samething. It's just Clawbot has rebrandedto mobile this week." Essentially, youcan, for example, create avatar videos,create voice clones, you can controlyour Chrome extension. You can do allsorts of crazy stuff like this, right?So, what we're going to do over here iswe're going to say, we're going to setit up, but you need to know how wemeasure performance better than averageand how we fetch stats. the clean setup.Use YouTube data API plus a scheduledjob that checks competitor uploads andcompares view velocity versus abaseline. Here's what we need from you.So, we're going to start setting up andthen it'll be a small script that runsevery 24 hours blah blah blah or it canuse it can actually do something withouta API key as well, but I'm going to seeif we can get an API key. So, I'm goingto say how to get an API key. Make sureit's all compliant with YouTubeguidelines, too. I think you couldprobably use something like ampify aswell to help you as well. Nico says thisis AI. We are covering AI today. That'swell observed. Uh Mash says, "Hi there."Mikey says, "Somewhere." And Paul says,"Morning." All right, cool. So, we'regoing to grab a YouTube API key andlet's have a look. So, it says here's acomplete here's a clean way to do it.This is Google's official way. So, we'regoing to use YouTube data API to readpublic data, channel uploads, and viewcounts. and we're going to get a YouTubedata API key. So, we're going to do thatfrom Google Cloud as you can see. Andthen from there, it's going to create aprojectlike you can see right here. All right.So, we're going to get straight intothisand let's continue working on this.Samuel says, "Have it run on AWSinstance." Have to say it's quiteimpressive so far. It is pretty good.Just be careful if you're using AWS orany sort of VPS when you're doing thiscuz um you know it's not not the best,mate. There's been a few issues withthat for sure. So,we're going to I'm going to navigateover to Google now.Create a new project. So, let's see. Howdo we create a new project? One thingthat I do find kind of annoying withclawbot is like sometimes it will tellyou to do something but not explain howto do it. So, I'm actually going to askthat to do it in the skill. I want tosay whenever you give instructions,you need totell me exactly step by step how to doit. Eg. You can see on the pageyou've linked to me.I can't see a create project option likeyou mentioned. Who else we got here? Wegot Wilty,legendary member. Welcome here. And wegot Carlos. Always good to see you,Carlos. Thanks for joining.Samuel says, "Yeah, Hans onhowever, it's great with Playright andChromium." Nice. All right.So, we're going to look at the top barnear the Google Cloud logo. Then, we'regoing toclick the project dropown. Here we go.new projectand we've maxed outour projects. All right,maybe I can rename one of these ones.Let's see. I've maxed out the number ofprojects I've created.How to add new ones. Good day. Can Iapply the way you are setting this up inGoogle to Yeah, you can use Kimmy K25 aswell. And Dominic says, "I need atreadmill like you are using. Need tolook at Lazada to order one." Yeah, Igot one off Shopee. It was about 3,000Bart. Shout out to people using Lazadaand Shopppee right now. Not many peopleknow about it to be honest. So, we'regoing to delete one that we don't use.Let's see what we got here. We candelete this one. Says scheduled to bedeleted after March the 1st.All right. Fat J says, "Kimo 2.5 isokay, but Claude Opus is so muchbetter." Yeah. Yeah, I would agree.Claude Opus is the best, but honestly,like chat GPT codeex is really good. Youget more tokens and you get no issuesthat way, right? So, you're not worryingabout it. We got Dominic and Rayong.Shout out to you. Calvin asks aboutgrowing a business. So, if you want togrow a business with Clawbot, check outthe AR profit boarding. We got loads oftraining in there on how to do it. I'musing Docker on one of my servers. DoesMaltbot can automation for SEO like autopost and WordPress? Yeah, it can. Yeah,it's pretty good for that actually. Letme show you an example. Right. So, thisis a page that we publish to our websitetargeting the keyword best SEO speakerswith Clawbot. Literally just went intoClawbot said create an article on bestSEO speakers. If you give the logindetails to Clawbot on how to log intoWordPress and you create a separateaccount for it, then it can createcontent and publish it directly toWordPress just from the chat app. So,yeah, it's really powerful for that. Youcan see literally I only created it afew days ago and it's already rankingnumber three inside AI overviews plusit's ranking number three on Googledirectly as well. So it's performingvery well using that process. Whatcomputer you running on this? Yeah, soI'm running it on a Mac Mini. Honestly,the minimal requirement is pretty basic.I think like no matter where you run it,you can run it on an old laptop orwhatever and then just run it throughthere. Yes, but I mean the bot itself,how it talks and things. Yeah, I wouldagree. Like chat chy doesn't have muchpersonality when you use clawbot.Whereas for exampleclaude, it just has so much morepersonality for sure. But if it costs alot of tokens and it gets expensive, isit worth it? I don't know. I don't knowabout that, you know. So you do spend alot of tokens using something like uhlike clawbot. So pick a project thatisn't being deleted. Click the linkin the list. Find a project with statusequals active. All right, let's trythat. Click the project. Open it. Thisis like literallythe least useful UI I've ever seen.We'll go back inside here. Okay, we'reinside that project now. Then we justneed to enable the YouTube API. So, I'mgoing to enable it right there. And thenwe just need to try the API. So, set up.So, we've got YouTube data API v3 here.And then we just need to set up. So,I'll do that in the background with APIkey. And we need to open up thecredentials bitwhich I've just clicked on over here.Click create credentialsAPI key. Restrict the keyto YouTube.Save. There's more details about how toset up the API for YouTube right here aswell. Now I've got the API key.So, I'm going to go over to Clawbot. Itshould set that up in the background.What do I do if I get this error inmobile? This version of anti-gravity isno longer supported. I would screenshotthe error and just ask clawbot, why areyou not opening up anti-gravity or whyare you giving me this error? And thenjust iteratively cycle through it.Obviously, you can switch between Claudeand Claudebot. Give them both the sameerror and just keep cycling throughuntil eventually get this solution. Itmight take about three or four back andforths, but eventually you get there.How do you do it without an API? Somepeople do with OAF, but I don'trecommend connecting OF Claude. They'vesaid don't do it. Don't do it, you know.Um, SEZ says, "May I ask how long ittook you to become skilled in usingClawbot? Could you please let me know ifthere are any tutorials available? I'minterested in using Clawbot to improvemy website's SEO." Yeah, soI've been using it for I mean, literallysince it first came out. So, it reallyit started blowing up around Saturdaylast week, and that's when I startedusing it. If you want to learn how touse it for SEO or just in general,check out the AI profit boardroom linkin the comments description or just goto ariprofrofitboardroom.com.Go to the SAP section here and thenwe've got a full section on like how toconnect it to WordPress directly um withthe WordPress setup guide right here.So, if you want the Claude and WordPresssetup guide, it's inside the AR profitboardroom. We've got a full 3-hourcourse on how to really master Clawbotas well inside there. So, if you wantthe details, you can go with it. Allright. So, it set up the API key now.As you can see, we just plugged it inand then it says, "Send me 5 to 20competitor channel links, which I'll doin a second. Pick the role views infirst two hours, 2x median of last 12videos." That would be pretty good. I'dlike option A.I'm just going to do it with a anexisting channel that we have thatpublishes like clips and say views infirst two hours. I can always deletethis later, but I want to test itactually works first.And let's see if it does that. I have afeeling the API key is not going to workfirst time around. I just I just knowwhat API integration with Google Cloudis like, but we'll see how it goes.We'll see how it goes. Either way, it'sgoing to be fun. Fat J says, "Hello, Iuse Kim K2.5. It's 100 times cheaper.Mobile isn't responding. That's exactlywhy I was asking you." Oh, so then youjust use Claude, right? Like if you ifmobile is not responding, then just useClaude, right? Go to Claude, give it theGitHub documentation and ask it fromthere. when you are using Kimmy withinClaudebot with open router. Now you canconnect uh Kimmy K2.5 API directly.There's been no post from clauderegarding not using net X. Always loveyour content. Smashing it. Thank youvery much. Never use YouTube API.Checking it out. Yeah, I I found thesame. I found open router was not verygood with clawbot and also I think it'smore expensive directly on open routerwhereas you can use it cheaper umdirectly inside there. All right. Okay.What's up, Julian? Louie says,"Perfect." All right, so I think we'vegot this set up. So, it says done. Testchannel is wired and running. Here'swhat I did. Updated the monitor so itcan accept a YouTube handle. Set yourtest competitor in the config file. Ranthe script successfully.And now it's actually scraped. So, well,it's not scraped, but it's like it'sused the YouTube APIto get the channel ID, check out thelatest video, check out the age of thevideo, how many views it got, blah blahblah. Right. Next up, it will ping youautomatically. Right. Tell me, tell mehow often you want checks. I'm going tosay every 60 minutes.And that's pretty awesome. So, just torecap on that workflow, and we'll put itinside the notes here.of the AR profitable bulldo we canmonitor competitor YouTube channels andyou can do that for like you knowwebsites whatever you want every timethere's an outlierit will automaticallyping youright see so it monitors my YouTube mycompetitor YouTube channelsautomatically every time there's acompetitor that does better versuseveryone else,but it's normal, it will automaticallyping me in the chat with the video idea.That's pretty insane. That is superuseful as well. I mean, that's likebasically I, you know, usually mostpeople they pay for stuff like umlike one of 10.com. I found one of 10was just like really outdated data. Thatwas the only problem. Whereas now I cangive it loads of competitor URLs and ifwe get like a really good uh website ifwe get a really good YouTube video ID itwill tell me right and it says I'veadded an hourly heartbeat task what itwill do each hour. So it's going to runthe API key monitor with the Pythonscript. If the output starts with alertsI'll message you on Telegram with thealert lines plus YouTube URLs. Next stepadd more competitive channels whenyou're ready. Just paste the channellinks. Pretty nice. And so I'm justgoing to do that in the background. Whatelse we got here? Which model am Irunning? I'm running codeex CLI with it.That seems to be the best. SEO says, "IfI get the monthly, uh, will I get accessto all the video tutorials to help meachieve the same results you'll getnow?" Yes, you will. Yeah, it's allinside there. So, when you actually signup to the air profit boardroom, let meshow you what you get for the monthly.Right. So, if you sign up here,you get access to the air profitboardroom, which means you get numberone, four weekly coaching calls a week.You can jump on live coaching calls. Andnumber two, inside the community, youcan ask any questions you have. Right?If you're in the SEO industry, forexample, you can type in SEO in thesearch bar, go to members, and you cansee all the SEOs that are in there rightnow. On top of that, you can get all ofmy best SEO trainings like you can see.And if you go to the classroom, you getaccess to all these video tutorials.Now, if you want to learn how to useClawbot specifically, go to the Moldbot,formerly known as Clawbot section here.You got a full 3-hour course. You gotfull setup guides for everything thatI've used it for, including WordPresssetup, right? So, if you want to getWordPress setup, you can see theWordPress setup with Clawbot rightthere. So, it's all inside heredirectly. I mean, if I go to uh Clawbothere, right, as you can see, um I'veplugged in my competitors now. And if Isay right, okay,create a guideon the YouTube alerts automationyou just created, plus publish it toWordPress, right? And I've also got alink to notion as well, so I can createnotion pages, too. But if I say, okay,create a guide on YouTube automation youjust created as a blog post. with setupinstructions,SOPs, etc., and a full guide, pluspublish it to WordPress. What it's goingto do is it's going to take all thatinformation that I just took, right? thefull guide, the full instructions, thewhole process, the whole system, andit's going to create a blog post usingthat, optimize it for SEO, and thenpublish it on my WordPress website um asa blog post,and it will publish it directly toWordPress automatically. Actually uses asub agent for this and a skill that I'vepre-programmed. I show it all inside theARI profit boardroom section right here.And yeah, it's it's really powerful forSEO. So if we go back inside now you cansee clawbot is typing. You just have towait for that to finish and then it'llbe done completely. Whe says how oftendo you update the how-to sections fordifferent models in air profit boarding.So we have multiple sections right solet let me show you some examples. Ithink we're maybe the only AI communitythat actually does this. Right? So ifyou go inside here you can see that weupdate it every single day. Right? SoMaltbot we updated this sectionliterally just now on this live streamfor the 28th of January which was just 2days ago. We show you how to switchmaltbot from claw to codeex. Inside thissection, we show you how to a freeclawbot um masterass. We actually addedthree new sections. So if you go insidethe classroom and then SOP updatesJanuary 2026,you can get all the latest SOPs forusing this stuff, right? So we literallyupdate it daily as soon as there's a newAI model. You know me, I'm on YouTube.I'm sharing what's what I'm learningas you can see right here. So you gotMbot 28th of January, 27th, 26th, etc.Everything that I learn, I test itwithin hours of the new update, I do alive stream like this and then when Ihave the setup guide and I've masteredthe skill, I put it inside the airprofitable as a as a system that you canuse. Now, if you want like the evergreenstuff that doesn't change and you'rejust like, I want I want the system. Idon't want to do stuff daily. Maybeyou've only got what an hour a week,then just stick to these modules, right?Or stick to the community. But if youwant to go super deep down the rabbithole like I am, then you can check outthe daily updates here. So whetheryou've got 1 hour a week, that's totallyfine. Whereas if you've got like a lotof time and you want like daily updates,check out the SAP section right herewhere we do daily updates. And you cansee we actually on the about page of theair profit boardroom, we actuallymention when the course was lastupdated. Um, and we literally update itevery single day. Boom. All right. So,if we go back to Clawbot now,we