here, we've linked this to notion.It's created a page. And then what Iwant to do is because we connected it tomobile directly, it already understandsthe process. I'm going to show how to dothis and then add the guide to a profitboard. But the cool thing is now that itsaved the process, right? So itunderstands, okay, got to add emoji.It's got to simplify the language. Gotto make it look beautiful and easy toread. And then I've got to write it inmarkdown because it knows that it'sgoing to save it as a skill. And thenevery time I ask it to create an SOP ora guide inside Telegram, it can do thatand it will remember that right usingthe context I've given it. So this iswhat it's all about. Video side effectsays great information. Thank you forsharing. It's always a pleasure. Thankyou very much for watching.Mind-blowing. Yeah, for sure. I want toautomate posting on Pinterest usingbrowse. Is that possible clawbot? Yep,you can do that. You just got to becareful. I would recommend using the APIconnection instead of using browser usebecause I think if you're using browseruse it can probably pick up the IPaddress something like that which Iwouldn't recommend. Instead what I'drecommend is using a maybe you want touse a proxy or an API. I would go withthe API to be honest. I think that'sprobably the best way. There might besome tools out there designed to helpyou do that. But yeah, you couldcertainly do that inside Clawbot. Sorry,Mobbot. Keep forgetting. All right, soit's saved that. Now it's created theguide. We've got the guide right here.Now, this page is private. All right.So, if you want to learn how to connectMoldbot directly to notion, let me addthe full guide inside the section here.We'll call this Mbot, formerly known asClaudebot. Then we'll go down here andadd the information for the All right.If your goal was to create automationthat answers phone calls and booksclient visits in the calendar, would youuse Clawbot? If so, how? I would usesomething like 11 laps, right? You don'tneed Clawbot for that. Clawbot is goodfor giving it tasks, but if it'ssomething like answering a call, Clawbotcould help you set up the automation,but you'd be better off using 11 Labsand then just attaching a phone numberto 11 Labs. That's what I actually didin the background. Thank you so much. Iwill definitely be in the classroomtoday. Always happy to help. And I thinkthat's pretty much it, peeps. All right,so just to recap, what can you do withMoltbar? With Moltbar, I've shown youthat you can publish blog posts directlyto WordPress. You can use this as an AISEO agent. You can communicate viamessaging apps like Telegram. You cancreate AI avatar videos. You can createvoice notes in the clone version of yourvoice. You can send emails, organizeyour calendar, create animations withRemotion, the skill there, host it withAlama, hook it up to notion, code withno code, deploy landing pages to customdomains as we can see on this beautifulpage right here. And yeah, it's superpowerful. How to set up Clawbot ormobile with NA10. So you would just linkthe API key directly, right? So youwould go inside clawbot and you say okaywhat do you need to link you directly toNA10 and then it will actually tell youwhat you need and then you just grab anAPI key from NA10 right and connect itdirectly so that it can operate it foryou but honestly like from everythingthat I've seen you don't really needNA10 anymore right NA10 is pretty simplebut yeah you just grab the NA10 URL foryour workspace and then the API key andthen boom shackle it can list all theworkflows. It can trigger work. You canenable and disable stuff. You can getworkflow details and of course also cancheck the history of stuff as well. Allright, so thanks so much. Video sideeffects says thank you. Always happy tohelp. Thanks everyone for watching. Ifyou want to get a full 3-hour course onMaltbot, if you want to get all my besttrainings, I've created a ton of stuffon my SEO with mobile, how to build andautomate anything with Mobot. You seethese are full step-by-step guides likeyou can see. We've also got Mobot AIbrowser agent 2 and a Mbot Masterass asyou can see. Right. So everything Mbotwe've got inside the AR profit boardroomand you can get a full guides latencystep by step today. Steal them from me.Learn how to set this up. You cancontrol your browser, control Chrome,you can send emails, deploy websites,and it all worked really well today,right? It was insanely good. So, this isby far the most powerful technology I'veever seen this year when it comes to AIand it's available to everyone. It'sopen source. It's basically what Sirishould have been and it's the closestthing I think we have to Javas. Theother cool thing I like about it is it'sso easy. You don't need to be technicalto use it, right? Anyone can use it. So,feel free to get that inside the ARprofit board link in the commentsdescription or go to arprofitboard.com.inside here. This is an amazingcommunity of 2,200 members and you canpost any questions you have. Get helpand support whenever you need it. Getquestions, answer, etc. You can getsupport. We've got an amazing communityfull of positivity and see peopleposting about Clubbot already. Right?So, if you want to join and be part ofsomething that that feels amazing, thenyou can check out Saman, right? Samansays, "Hey, everyone. So, I finally tookthe plunge and set up my own maltbotinstance." Right? Honestly, it feelsbrilliant to have my own personalassistant. This is a member inside theair for bordering running 24/7. Right?So you can see it's not just me that'swinning with this stuff. Anyone can winwith this. Right? The ammo says what'smbot now. So maltbot is the rebrandedversion of clawbot. So it was previouslyknown as clawbot. Now it's beenrebranded to mbot today. And you can seewhat he's done here. So for anyone who'swondering mobile is an open source AIassistant that runs on a 24/7 server.You can chat with it through telegram orWhatsApp. It does actually work. It'snot just answering questions. He doesreal tasks. And then you can see here hecleared his inbox, scheduled meetings,researched companies, followed up withleads, wrote content, managed hiscalendar. He said that one hooked upGitHub, Google Drive, and Gmail. And itcan do all sorts of crazy stuff. So heactually grabbed a VPS, connected withsome man inside the AR profitable, got aserver, installed it, and then boom,gave it an identity, and you see allthese people using clawbot res. If youwant to be part of a community where wewin and we learn and we grow together,join the AR profit boardroom and you cansee that we have a daily accountabilitygroup right here. If you go inside thecalendar, you can get help and supportwhenever you need it on a live call. Wehave four weekly coaching calls righthere. And also inside the classroom, youcan go from complete beginner to expertwith AI automation and learn how tobuild your first AI agent in under fiveminutes. On top of that, you can get mybest playbooks on automations fornewsletters, for emails, for shorts, foravatar videos. You can personally DM me.It's the only place in the world that Ipersonally DM people and reply topeople's DMs. You can, for example, getour course on how to get more clients.You can watch back the coaching calls ifyou go and watch them live. You canlearn how to rank number one inside AIsearch engines and Google itself. I'veshown you examples of how to do thatwith Clawbot today. And then also youcan see that we've got a full six weekroad map on exactly how to master scaleand grow and get customers with YouTubetoo based on what's working for me.Right? This is all stuff that Ipersonally implement and learn and Ijust share with the world like we'vedone today. All right. So feel free toget that inside the profit boarding.It's available link in the commentsdescription or go toarprofitboarding.com.Today we are going to be running throughMaltbot because Claudebot is justrebranded to Maltbot. Like you can seeright here, as you can see, the opensource Clawbot powered by AnthropicsClawed Models and running locally onMac, Windows, or Linux switched toMaltbot following a trademark concernfrom Anthropic over the similar Clawudename. So you can see here they'veactually switched over and they'vemolted. And as you can see here, Clawbotis now Mbot and Claude is now calledMulti. All right. So they've kept thesame icon and everything else. It's justhave switched over to Mobile. I thinkthey had some trademark issues withAnthropic. Obviously, it sounded verysimilar. And you can see the updatesright here. They've also announced a fewupdates for Clawbot as well, which I'llcover in a second. So, if you're notseen it already, let's go over to GitHuband we can look at the latest change logover here. But if you're not familiarwith Maltbot, let me talk you throughexactly what it could do. So, here's anexample. Before I actually went on tothis live stream, I said, "Create avoice note about Maltbot, an AI avatarvideo, plus a YouTube thumbnail, pluspublish a blog post about Moldbot AIassistant." right here. And you see itstarted generating the Hey Gen videousing the AI avatar and actually createda voice note in my voice as you can seeright here. Let's play this back.>> What's up everyone? Let me tell youabout the AI system that's absolutelychanging the game. It's a personal AIassistant that actually does things notjust chatting. We're talking aboutclearing your inbox, sending emails,managing your calendar, even checkingyou in for flights. And the crazy part,it all happens through WhatsApp,Telegram, or whatever chat app you use.Here's what makes it insane. Yourcontext and skills live on yourcomputer, not some garden. It'scompletely open source. You've got So,you can see here that basically it'screated the voice note about Mobot. Alsogenerated this YouTube thumbnail likeyou can see as well. So, it's using NanoBanana and Google's API to generate thatdirectly. And the actual thumbnail looksreally cool. Literally all we said wascreate a thumbnail and it generatedsomething that honestly was number onefaster but number two better than whatmost of my team could produce if theywere thumbnail designers. Right? Andthen on top of that we've also got theblog post right here. So this is theblog post for using Maltbot. Timewatchsays does Telegram need to be the maininterface for using Maltbot? It doesn'tneed to be. No, not at all. You can useSo you can use the inbuilt with Clubbotwhich is hosted locally. The otheroption that you have is yes you can usetelegram you but you can also usediscord you can use WhatsApp I thinkthey just released a new line update aswell let me have a look here we shouldhave the change log let's have a look atthe change log MD here all right so wecan see the new changes on 26th so youcan see here rebrand they renamed thempm package CLI to mbot as you can seeand then I think what they've also donehere is they added a line channel guideright so you can actually connect thisStevens to line which is like an Asianlike chat app. As you can see they'vealso set up a web UI too. Yeah. And allthis is set up and ready to go. So youcan use Telegram, Slack, you can use MacOS, whatever you want. Right. It doesn'thave to be Telegram at all. Yeah. Youcan see it actually went straight to myWordPress website. So earlier I actuallygave Mobot my login details to WordPressand then it's published a bunch of blogsto my site. And literally all I have todo is go inside Telegram, tell it what Iwant to create. like you can see overhere. So, this is the blog post and thenwe can generate this pretty quickly asyou can see and it formats it reallynicely. So, it does a nice title. Itsays mobile the AI system that actuallydoes things 2026 review blah blah blah.It's formatted it nicely straight to thepoint. It's got some nice bullet points,some quotes of people using it, somereal use cases and even the link. Andthen also, here's a cool thing. Itfunnels traffic to our funnels like yousee right here in the blog post. Now, ifwe want to publish this, all we do is wehit publish and then boom, we've got ablog post ready to go literally from aTelegram message. So, it's pretty crazywhat mobile can do. It is superpowerful. I think a lot of people don'trealize how powerful it actually is. Itcan control your browser as well. So,for example, I can toggle this, switchthis on as you can see, right? And thenwe can say, okay, search Google for thelatest AI news or I don't know, do aGoogle search for Julian Goldie.Something like that, right? Research me.And what we can do is just say, okay, goto use my Chrome extension to do this.And by the way, whilst we're waiting forthat to load, if you haven't checked outalready, check out the AI profit board.This comes with all the setup notes plusa 3-hour course on how to use mobile. Soif you want to learn exactly how itworks, how to use it, etc., you canlearn that inside the arprofit boardinglink in the comments description or goto arprofitboarding.com. You can also DMme if you have any questions. And youcan see Mobot has Googled Julian Goldieover here. All right, so it was prettyquick to do that and did it directlyfrom Telegram, which is pretty insane aswell. By the way, if you have anyquestions as we go along, feel free toask. I've spent a lot of time testingmobile and it's by far the best updatethat I've seen this year. Genuinely,it's one of the few ones that canactually like go off and just do stuffin the web, right? Like you can no codethis with NA10 where you have to set upa workflow and then link all the nodestogether and get all your differentAPIs. Using Clawbot, you can basicallydo the same thing, but you set it up inminutes, not hours. And also, it's notso much messing around with APIs. Plus,you don't need external service likeNA10. So, it's super powerful stuff.There's also a new O Lama update. By theway, you can see here it generated a heygen YouTube video. So, if we go to Lama,you can see that they literally justannounced 5 hours ago that you can useand in one command get this up andrunning with Clawbot. So the way thatthis works if you want to for exampleuse this with clawbot is you can setthis up without like messing around withany sort of stuff right so literallywhat you do is you install clawbotfollow it on boarding and then fromthere you can configure it with so ifyou go on to terminal here and we'llopen up a new terminal like so we'll goto new window set up lama like that andyou can just download the new update forlama and then once you've done that youand run oama launch clawbot and it willlook something like this once you set itup and then you can host it locally andalso do the same with open code too butyeah that's a pretty cool update that'sjust come out with lama too all right sofar what have we done we have usedmobile to control our browser to createavatar videos to create voice notes itcan also for example use nana bananathumbnails pretty simple and easy nowI'll be interested to see if we canconnect this to x as well so if we goinside the chat here and we're like,"Okay, can you post to X for me? If so,how do you just need my login details?"And we'll see if this can start using Xand Twitter directly using my logindetails. I'm not going to give it mymain accounts details. I'll give it atest account. See how it performs.Breakthrough says breakthrough soon.That's what we're talking about. Methodone, browser cookies. If you logged intoX Chrome, I can grab the off cookiesautomatically. Or you can use bird. Soyou go to x.com, open dev tools, andthen you can go from there. All right,let's try this out. So I'm actuallygoing to log out of my normal X account,and we'll switch to this one. So this islike a secondary account, like you cansee. All right. And then from here, whatwe're going to do is we need to open updev tools application tab cookies. Okay.So F12, we need to press time says,"Yeah, I'm still scared to give itaccess to my real accounts." I wouldagree with you. I wouldn't do anythingthat you're not comfortable with, right?So, if you're not comfortable withsomething that you're doing, just becareful and you don't need to doanything you don't need to. So, I'mgoing to open this up now. Obviously,I'm going to have to stop sharing myscreen. All right. So, we're back on.Yeah. So, that's one of the ways you canuse it. You can use it with X and thatsort of thing. You can post toWordPress. Also, one thing that I wantto test here is linking it out toNetifi. So what we can do is we can goto Netlify like this and then we cancreate a new access token. So I'm justgoing to do that in the background. Andnow if we go back to clawbot you can seewe've connected to Netlefi 2. Right? Soit says done. You got 10 sites ready.Here's a bunch of stuff that you got.You can deploy. You can update existingwebsites and push new versions etc.Right? So for example here if we're likeokay here's my community. All right. Sowe'll grab the details of the AR profitborder. like you can see. Then we'regoing to go back over to Clawbot andwe'll say here's some info about the AIprofit boardroom. Can you create abeautiful modern landing page pointingto it? Make it a direct response salespage optimize to convert. Right? Andbasically what we can do here is we cancode out the page and then we can deployit with Netlefi as well. So you can seehere it says on it building a highconverting direct response page. Now,David says, "I think this is the AIJulian." Claudebot, a starting versionof Iron Man Jarvis. Yeah, I would agree.I think it is like pretty much there.Honestly, any task that you give to avirtual assistant, you can now give toMaltbot instead. So, for example,publishing WordPress, there's no pointgiving to assistant anymore, right? Youmight as well just give that to Clawbotand Clawbot can