host it? Weare going to go with my local. I don'tif if I deploy it to Netifi for examplethen anyone could access that so thatwould not be good right brand assetsyou can always plug in a logo if youwant to and then features you want sofor example pick MVP so push to talkversus always listening conversationhistory on screen voice selection onevoice versus multiple which is prettycrazy and then wake word right so forexample here you could say okay wake upwith a certain word and then it wouldjust wake up which is pretty insaneAnd then you can see here it says vastfastest MVP I recommend web app plusopen eye realtime voice push to talkanimated maltbot orb listening thinkingspeaking states right send me this andI'll start so I've sent over the API nowand it's just beginning to code this outnumber of things says how do you get outof sandbox mode so if you mean like forexample hosting it locally versushosting online you want to if if youwant to connect it to something like amessing app just check out my othervideos I got a full guide inside theoffer boardroom, but you would link itto something like Telegram, right? So,what you do is you you set up the botfiber inside Telegram. We got a fulltutorial video inside the AR profitableknow exactly how to set upright here. And you can always DM me ifyou need help with this. The other thingthat I've done is switch it to codeexAPI. And uh Kyle says, "Are you usingthe CLI for coding or just using it asLLM?" So just using it as an LLM. Okay.So now we should have this back. Let'scheck it out. And if we go back toClawbot here, we've got this hosted on alocal host, right? So you can see hereit's running now and it built thefastest local MVP and set the API key ina local only state. Right? So it'srunning now. Here's a local URL. If weactually go over to the app, we've gotit right here. So we can allow this andthen we can choose to start, stop, talk,etc. Right? So if we click on start,hey, are you listening now? Hey,hey, can you Hey, can you speak inEnglish? Hey, can you speak in English,please?>> Of course, I can speak in English. Whatwould you like to talk about?>> Now, it's not working perfectly, but wehave created the voice agent rightthere. Um, and it works in real time,which is pretty crazy. So, what I'mgoing to do now, cuz I saw there's anerror when we click hold to talk. Andalso, there's no there's no real likeicon for the Maltbot voice. So, I'mgoing to go back to Clawbot here, andI'm going to say, okay,add a real Mbot character. We'll justtake a screenshot kind of like this, butcreate your own lobster style character.The hold to talkbutton keeps giving me an error plusmake sure I can talk to youmobilewhen we're using this. Okay. So now whatwe should be able to do is improve theapp itself itself so that it has a nicercharacter inside this section. The holdto talk button should work better. Andthen additionallyhopefully we can actually controlmoldbot whilst we use this so that itcan we can operate Mbot via the voiceagent here which if we can that's goingto be insane. Also, for some reason, itwas speaking in Spanish when we firstopened it up, which is really strange.Big Danny says, "Can you please uh insimple terms describe the differencebetween anti-gravity and mobile?" Yeah.So, anti-gravity is like a ID, right?So, it's really good for coding. Thedifference is that if you're usingsomething like Mobot, well, it can do alot more, right? It can actually takeaction in the real world, right? So, forexample, it can control my Chromebrowser, like you see here, we've gotClawbot browser relay set up. You canpublish blogs to to WordPress. You canuse this app via Telegram, right?Anti-gravity you don't use via Telegram.You can create AI avatar videos. You cancreate voice notes. We have a full3-hour course demonstrating this insidethe pop for Booming. But basically, itcan just do so much more. And it's likea 24/7 assistant. Whereas, if you'reusing something like anti-gravity, it'sreally just designed for coding, right?That's what it's designed for. So, it'sbeginning to recode this out now. Howwill they work together? So basically weshould be able to use the voice agent tocontrolmobile um directly. So we we be able totalk to it in real time, have aconversation with it, blah blah blah.Have you installed mobile browserextension? I have indeed installed theChrome extension which was pretty simpleand easy. Whilst we're waiting for thisto load, if you haven't already, checkout the AR profit board and it comeswith all our best training, step-by-stepguides on how to use this. If you wantto use it with, for example, codeex CLI,we have a full video and step-by-stepguide here on how to switch from claw tocodeex. If you want to see our full3-hour course on exactly what it can doand how you can set up, etc., we've gotthat right here. You can also learn howto use it with the AI browser extensionusing this. So, for example, AJ, ifyou're struggling and you want to learnhow to use the mobile browser extension,just follow the steps inside thissection of the AR profit boardroom. Andwe also show you how to basically set upand automate anything using clawbot aswell. So, here we go. We've set this up.It's replace the orb with a cute lobsterbot. Fix this and we'll test if thisworks. Whoa, look at that. Look at that.Now, we're getting somewhere. So, youcan see here, for example, we've got thebot little lobster talking. It's idlemode right now. We click on start. Hey,can you speak in English? Hey, can youspeak in English?>> Hey, can you speak in English, please?>> Of course, I can speak in English.What's up?>> All right. So, what can you do? Can youoperate Clawbot for me?>> Absolutely. I can help operate a robotwith a claw if it's set up for remotecontrol. Just let me know what specifictask.>> All right. It's still a little bit buggyon the hold to talk. So, I'm going tosay the hold to talk button is stillquite buggy. Also, it speaks in Spanishby default. And can you make surethatI can operatemaltbotwith the voice agent? Fun world says,are you running locally or VPS locally?So, it's running inside the terminal andthen we connected it to Telegram. Nowsome people are asking with clawbot likeare there any issues with um you knowsecurity and stuff like that. So numberone I'm not an expert so don't do itnever do anything you're not comfortablewith. Number one that's what I'd say. Soif you're not comfortable with somethinglike just don't do it you know. Um andnumber two the issues I've seen mostlyhave been with VPS. The other issue thatI've seen is like some people will emailfrom an external email address toMaltbot and tell it to do something. Andso that's why I actually removed myemail connection. But yeah, I mean likethis is just an open- source randomGitHub on the internet. Like if ifthere's if you have any doubts, justdon't use it. Like and you know, you canjust watch my videos to see how I use itand then learn from that instead. Thereare also some like MCPs you can set upfor like security and stuff like that.Okay, so it should be more stable now.Make sure I can operate mobile. We wouldneed to doWe would need to set it up so that itcan operate thisdirectly, but it might make it a littlebit slower. I'm going to go with optionB, which is keep super fast real-timechat and only call mobile tools when yousay run tool. Okay, nice. So, let's trythat. Now, if we reset this page, hey,are you listening right now? Can youspeak in English, please?>> Of course, I can switch to English. Whatwould you like to talk about? Whathappened in the AI world today?>> I can give you an idea.>> So, we we need to connect it to mobilebecause otherwise it's not going to bethat useful. It's just going to be likea generic voice agent. So, that's whatwe're doing inside mobile here. You'reasking it to keep it super fast,realtime chat, um, and cool mobile toolsas well. And then also, you probablywant to code it out so that it hasinternet access as well, so it can doweb search and that sort of thing. Butyou could always say like run tool. Andthe other annoying thing is that itseems to reply. It seems to start theconversation in Spanish for some reason.Some stuff like that. Is GLM 4.7 enoughto run? See, you can run it, but it'sjust not going to be as good, right? SoClaude is like by far the best formobile. Then you've got chat GPT CLI,which seems actually on par so far. I'mnot seeing any issues. The onlydifference with chat GT CLI is like youget less personality, if that makessense. And then you have umthen you finally have you have u what isit stuff like GLM you know miniax you'vegot for examplechatbt codec cli with oorthth which iswhat I'm using you've got kim k25 aswell that you could use I I thinkhonestly the best out of all these sofar isyeah I I would say the best out of theseso far is chat cheapy codeex like if youwant something that's that's not goingto cost a lot but also works reallywell. Yeah, it seems to be codeex. Imean, so far it's coded really well.Like it's done a great job on the codingside of things. JP says, "You saved thelife. Want to rewatch it?" Yeah, so youcan watch it on YouTube or you can jointhe A profit boardroom. Feel free to DMme and I'll send you the link. Is mobilereplacing NA10? Just learning NA10.Should I learn mobile instead? That's aninteresting question. Actually,something I wanted to talk about todaywas like I've not really used NA10 forquite a while. And the reason for thatis like it it's quite technical and itoften breaks and it takes a lot of workto set up, right? Whereas if you usesomething like for example Maltbot orClawbot, it seems to work better rightso far and it's just easier. So we'regoing to try this out now. Hey, are youlistening right now?>> Yes, I'm here and listening to you.What's on your mind?>> Run tool. What time is it in Bangkok?>> Right now it's 9:21 a.m. in Bangkok. Letme know if there's anything else you'dlike to know.>> Run tool. What happened?>> Run.>> Run tool. What happened in the AIindustry today? Run tool, what happenedin AI today? Run tool, what happened inAI today? Run tool, reply to me. Allright, it's it's okay. It's It's stillquite buggy when it comes to running thetool. So, running it directly withmobile. It's something I'm going to workon, but it is impressive that you canbuild out a nice little tool like this.It looks pretty cool. It's got like alobster style icon that we can talk to.We should eventually be able to linkthis to mobile directly, but the factthat it's built out a realtime voiceagent is impressive in itself. It's justa little bit buggy. I would prefer thestart stop option honestly instead ofhold to talk. So I'm going to say okaythe link to m therun tool option doesn't work so wellplus you keep speaking in Spanish. Thereshould be no Spanish in thisconversation and also I don't like thehold to talk option. I'd prefer just thestart option for speaking. So Flymansays so codeex can open and run thingstoo like claw code. Yeah. Yeah, it seemsreally good. Mark says, "I got an issuesetting up a telegram with mbot.