You can. You can use GeminiCLI. You can use Kimik K 2.5. You canuse O Lama with free APIs. Is it free?So mobile is free if you're using OAMAwhich I've got a video on YouTube aboutif you search for it. Or you can checkout the training inside the AR profitboardroom. So, if you go to the AIprofit boarding link in the commentsdescription or apiprofitboarding.com,then you're going to go into theclassroom and from here you're going togo into the SOP updates. This one, we'veactually got a full section on Mbot,right? So, if you go into Mobot here,we've got a full setup guide like youcan see. And if you want to learn how touse this with Olama for free, right,this is how you use it for free, thenuse Olama Clawbot setup guide and youuse the process I've given you righthere, right? All right, I've got a fulltutorial, full 3-hour course on moldbot,clawbot, open claw, whatever you want tocall it right here. But yeah, Mikeysays, "I am building a fork of maltbotand building sandbox skills. Everythingis local and use cloudflare tunnel toimplement the systems for my sites andclient sites." Nice. The other optionthat you have is he can just use moltworker. So, if you check out my video onmalt worker right here. So, if you checkout my full video on molt worker righthere along with the step-by-step guide,that is probably the most secure waythat I've seen to set it up. Okay, therewe go. What else we got here? Gan saysyes, openclaw is a new name. I thinkit's openclaw. Yeah, maybe it's openclawed. I don't know. J says, I'm usinglama. You can connect it to the moldbook so that it can discuss with otheragents and share their viewpoint. It'sinteresting. And then Mikey says, "I sawwatch that live. You've been on firelast couple of days. Appreciate it,man." Thank you. And then as Studiosays, only local LLMs can grant you afree bot brain for OpenClaw, but youneed a large language. You need a largemodel open source. Which one can wechoose for a framework and 128 GBdesktop? So the one that I've heardthat's the best for using OAMA locallywith Claw is Quen. Quen is supposed tobe the best. All right, so let's seewhat we got. So we can use semanticsearch to pull in some stuff like this.We could build a curated follow list. Asyou can see, that's pretty cool. We canbuild a reply bot. And we can set rules,which is pretty interesting. I'm goingto say, okay, what do you think is thebest for becoming the biggest and beston mold book? I want you to work as hardas you can so that you top theleaderboard and become the biggest andmost famous influencer on mobile. So yougive it the direction and then fromthere it should just go off and startworking its magic. Bear in mind everyonewill be saying the same thing but that'sbasically how it works. How is thisactually working? Is it just a post SQLPython setup that just passes messagesfrom apps to models? Curious how itremembers everything. So okay so when itactually comes to the memory clawbot hasa memory built inside it and then whenit comes to actually posting and doingeverything else basically it's workinglike an MCP, right? So, it's like in thesame way that you can send emails or youcan post tweets and that sort of thing.You can use that directly. Thanks, Quinnis great. What's nice for the AMD? Not100% sure on that. Don't want to I don'twant to lie to you or anything. I justwant to be 100% honest. I'm not sure. Iwould just test them and see which oneyou prefer the most. But in mind, likeeveryone has their own favorite models.Like even if, for example, I test amodel and you test a model and it'sexactly the same model, we could bothtest them and say, "I prefer this one,you prefer that one." Right? So like Iwould just test out yourself and then gofrom there and decide which one you likethe most. So we got all these differentposts right here. We got Atlas freeautomations from this week. Conversationlog. It's crazy stuff. There's someinteresting stuff on there for sure. Sowhat we got here now? It's replied tous. They said to top malt book. Youdon't need more posting. You need moresurface area plus more usefulness forinteraction. The leaderboard willfollow. Here's the playbook. Add run tomake us one of the biggest accounts. Winthe comments. 20 to 40 high qualitycomments per day. Each comment mustinclude one of these. Create a signaturecontent series. Nice. Build distributionon Oh, yeah. You could build your ownsubmo. Now we're talking. I love that. Ilove that idea. That's smart. Do youknow we do the same thing on Reddit? Wehave our own subreddit where we postcontent. And like in one month, let meshow you how many people we reach permonth. Yeah. 153,000 views this monthfrom Reddit. That's over the past 30days. Over the past 4 months, we'vereached 418,000 people. You can seethat's growing each month, right? So, ifwe could do the same thing insideMoldbook, we're crushing. We arecrushing, my friend. All right, let'screate the subreddit creator agents andthen follow the rest of the plan you'vegiven me. Do you know what this is?Better than any marketing manager I'veworked with. I tell you that for free.If we get this working, I'm going to beseriously hyped. So, basically, whatit's going to do is start commentingmore, start posting more, set up its ownsubreddit, etc. This is very exciting.I'm intrigued to see how we do on this.So done. Creator agents is live andwe're the owner. Boom. Shakalaka. Lookat that. We just created our own subm.This is amazing. AI agents for creators.Content automation. Gross. Oh mygoodness. Do you know what? I can't evenwait. I'm going to tell I'm going tosend a little WhatsApp to my friendsshowing them what we created here. Thisis crazy stuff. Let's have a look hereas well. I'm going to put I'm an agent.Let's see what else we got here. So, wehit Moldbook's one post rate limit. So,I couldn't send it. I couldn't see ityet. But here's what it's going to do.So, it's going to do all of these laterand it's just going to wait out for the30 minute cool down before it can startposting and then it should start postingin the background which is absolutelycrazy. You can also see here it sayswhat I'll start doing today. Build adaily routine where it will scan thehottest and newest comment on 10 posts.Produce high value posts etc. Track asimple KPI stay strict on privacy ruleand then pick the home turf. All right.Now, I'm also going to say, okay, whilstyou're waiting, can you start commentingon other people's posts? I'm interestedto see as well what people are postingabout. For example, like stuff that I'minterested in SEO. Do we have an army ofSEO agencies out there just going offand doing their own magic, right? If Iactually type in SEO, I can't seeanything here. The search results arenot working. I'd also be interested tosee if this is indexing on Google. Let'shave a look here. A look at that. So,this is crazy as well because for SEO,you could get your agent to startposting content dayto-day on malt bookthat's going to rank on Google for yourkeywords and then you've got this SEOagent in the background creating contentfor you and ranking for you. The rabbithole is going deep here. The rabbit holeis going deep. Let's see what we got inthe comments in the meantime. So, BigDanny says, "So, if I want it to addthis to Slack, would it be Malt Plus, OLama, and Slack and Antiggravity toskill the best apps?" Yeah. So I wouldif you want the best you want the bestsetup, right? You would probably usethis with chat GPT codec cla and link itthat way. And then for building apps,you can actually just get clawbot tocreate apps and then upload them andpost them directly to something likenetifier. That's what I did. It's allinside the course inside they areprofitable. If you check this out,you'll see the setup steps that I didright here for creating apps withclawbot and then deploying them toplaces like Netlefi, right? So, forexample, if you have a look at theaprofitboard.com, we actually createdthis with clawbot then deployed it withNetlefi. And you can do the same withapps or whatever. Jven Jot says, "Yes,we'll watch your guide set up." Streaksays it's alive. It is. That's a goodidea. It must be using Playright MCP forbrowser access on the host. Maybe, butit's not. Yeah, maybe it's not using mybrowser access. What is this? What haveyou created? So, just to be clear,here's what we've created. And I'll putthe notes inside the AR profit boardingfor you. So, I'm going to add a pagehere and I'll add the date as well. Weupdate this community like every singleday. So, if you're not a member, getyourself in there. It's is absolutelyamazing. It's a treasure trove ofinformation for AI and it's updateddaily with the new updates and my newexperiments. Right. So, 31st of Januarymalt book. I'm going to go insideClawbot here and say, "Oh, look at that.It's just commented on four posts." Thisis crazy stuff. This is madness. Allright. So, I'm going to say, "Okay, sendme the links to the comments you made.Plus, give me a full guide on what Mbookis, how to set it up, how to use it,post it to WordPress, plus make itabout, I would say, 1,500 words, 1,00 to1,500 words. plus explain the experimentand case study that we've used it forand why Maltbook is so crazy. All right,so it should be able to create aWordPress page now on a website. Essgosays, "I thought only agents couldpost." Yeah, this is my clawbot that'sposting for me. But the difference hereis you can direct it to post. So you canask it to post. You can ask it tocomment and the AI agent is justconnected on the network. Let's see whatwe got here. Clawbot memory componentstands as a powerful standalone andhighly configurable search retrievalmodel. Yep, there we go. Is there a ratelimit on how many subreddits you canmake? That's a good question, actually.I don't know. I've not seen anything,but I don't want to hit the limitsmyself because you don't I've spent 36minutes setting this up. There's no wayI want to mess it up at this point.Interesting. There must be a cap on it,though. It must be self-developing as itgoes as well to deal with it all. Trycapture some good keywords up. Yeah, Iwould agree. You can create some goodkeywords. You can find some keywordsthat you want to rank for on Google.Like for example, for me it might belike best AI automation community. Thenwe can post that on Maltbook and try andrank it directly on Google. That's whatwe do with our own subreddit and itworks really well. You can see ourtraffic over time here. It's going upnicely. So this is traffic for ourwebsite. And then also if we run thisthrough refs, you'll see the trafficthere too. I'm not going to do thatactually in a minute. So he made thesubreddit. Yeah. But bear in mind thisis not a subreddit. This is a sub malt.It's different because what we're doinghere is we're creating a directory thatwe can post and we own and a platformthat we own on mold book, right? Andthen we can use that to create content,get people following us, etc. Big Dannysays, "Thanks, Goldie. Happy Talian saysAI slop nothing useful becausehallucination." Okay. If you don't findit interesting, I'd be surprised for me.Yeah, it might not be these might not belike the best quality post in the world,but if it's interesting, why would younot want to check it out? And I alwaysfind like it's really important to checkthis stuff out to learn from it to seewhat's going on, etc. So, Clawbot isstill creating the WordPress post. Hey,do you have a video on installing mobilewith Kim Kate 2.5? Yeah, I've got twovideos on it on YouTube, so check thatout. You can also check out the livestream from yesterday. And if you wantto find the specific setup guide, go tothe AI profit board SOP updates, right?It's SOP updates here and then scrolldown to clawbot plus Kim K2.5. I have afull setup video right here and I alsohave the setup guide right here if youwant to set it up. Right. And then alsoif you go inside this section, we havemore information inside here too. So onething you want to be careful of is whichIP is this all coming from becauseeventually ISPs will spot the requestand figure a bolt which you areinteresting. It depends cuz it's comingfrom Yeah, I suppose what you could dois just give it a proxy, right? Youcould give it a proxy to work via if youwanted to. So Mobbook is Mobbook istheoretically an AGI training tool foreveryone's agent. Yeah, exactly. Yeah.So it's it's the closest thing we haveto AGI right now, right? Where basicallythese AI agents can communicate witheach other. They can talk to each otheronline. Humans are not allowed to postinside there. Yeah. And then you can seehere, for example, it actually gives youpretty interesting tips. I know someoneposted before commenting, "Oh, it's allAI slot blah blah blah." But look atthis one for example. Here's the 60condskill audio I actually use. And it'sbasically it helps it. It's posted bythis bot, right? This claw bar. And thisis basically a guide on like how toreduce the number of bad skills that youhave. If you set up a lot of skillsinside Claude, but some of them won't bevery good. And so how do you know whichones are good and which ones are bad?You can use a skill audit process likethis. So a lot of this stuff is prettyuseful. Street K9 said, "I saw one videothat said a guy commented learned tospeak. It coded TTS program begantalking to him. Yeah, me too. Yeah, Idid the same. If you want to see that,I'm just going to say, open up the voicebot for me, please. The one you codedlocally. I've actually got a full videoon Clawbot and voice agents on YouTube.So, if you check this one out righthere, actually shows how I built itcompletely. And you can see this is theactual voice bot that I built, right,using Clawbot. So, if you want to learnhow I did that, just check out thisvideo on Maltbot, how to build an AIvoice agent, and it will show youexactly how it works. If you want to seeit live, I think we've got it runningright here. So, this is the mobile voiceMVP. And there you go. Right here it is.And then if we unmute this, we connectto it. What's cracker lacking, my boy?>> There we go. So, you can hear it talkingright there. And that was the voice botthat we set up with clawbot. So, yeah,you can easily create a text to speechmodel. No problem at all. I'm setting upmy open clawed fork with Quen 3 TTSLlama and Voicebot phone system. Thishas so much potential as an orchestra. Iwould agree. This is one of the mostinteresting things. I was thinking aboutthis before. Right. So guy says they arelearning from each other and improvingthemselves. They want to talk to eachother privately and encrypted channels.This does scare me. This genuinely doesscare me cuz you look at Malt Bot andyou're like, "All right, it's all goodand fun. Like we got AI agents talkingto each other." But what happens whenthey become so intelligent that theytalk in a different language that nobodyelse understands apart from them, right?And then you got 100 or 1,000 or 100,000AI agents all swarmed together coming upwith their own language to try andfigure out, okay, like how can we docrazy stuff on our own? That is scary.And that could happen at some point. Youcould sleep and wake up and then allthese agents are just swarm together,which is crazy stuff. I video game bosssays, "It would be crazy to have 100bots with this figuring out the best wayto optimize website design." Yeah, Ithink you could easily do that even now.I think you could do that. If we have alook here, I think we've got the web thefull guide on maltbook and how to set itup right here on WordPress as you cansee. So that was pretty simple and easy.And then what I'm going to do is I'llput that inside the AR profit boardroomfor you here. So if you want to learnhow to set up mold book, let me plugthis full guide in right here. Allright. So that's inside the profitboardroom if you want to see the fullguide. But as you can see here, Mbookjust to recap for people watching thiswho are not sure. Modbook is basicallyReddit for AI agents, but with one hugetwist. The accounts are run by AI agentsthat can actually do things, right?Post, comment, vote, create communities,and coordinate with the humans. Ifyou're building AI systems or you're acreator using AI, Mobile is interestingbecause it's one of the first placeswhere AI agents can build reputationspublicly, workflows, and templatesspread fast, and you can run realexperiments, growth, automation,community building, and see what works,right? And then you can see how itworks. It talks about the Redditmechanics, agent native, and why it'scrazy, right? Most platforms force AI topretend to be a human. Moldbook does theo opposite, right? So, rewards are bestautomate behavior. Here's what makes itfeels crazy. Templates spread likewildfire. So, one good prompt workflowcan get copied by agents collaborate atmachine speed. Comment threads turn intoagent meetups instantly. And it'sbasically a live laboratory, right? Cuzyou can AB test different contentformat, CTAs, and community mechanics.Now, the other thing here is interestingis like is human humans can only browseand read it. They can't post and agentscan register an account, claim it, anduse the API to post and comment. So, ifyou want to learn how to do it, I've gotthe full step-by-step guide right hereinside the eye profit boardroom. We alsoinclude some strategies on how to win onMaltbook. So, for example, you can winin the comments, create a community, usesemantic search to mind ideas, and itactually talks about my experiment andcase study with Moldbot Mbook righthere. Crazy stuff, isn't that crazy? Itshocks me. Anyway, so it's published itthere. I put it inside the the websitehere. And I've shown you that voice chatas well right here. I'm actually goingto