in the commentsdescription or go toarprofitboarding.com.inside here. This is an amazingcommunity of 2,200 members and you canpost any questions you have, get helpand support whenever you need it. Getquestions, answer, etc. You can getsupport. We've got an amazing communityfull of positivity and see peopleposting about Clawbot already, right?So, if you want to join and be part ofsomething that that feels amazing, thenyou can check out San, right? Samansays, "Hey everyone, so I finally tookthe plunge and set up my own maltbotinstance." Right? Honestly, it feelsbrilliant to have my own personalassistant. This is a member inside theairport for bordering running 24/7,right? So you can see it's not just methat's winning with this stuff. Anyonecan win with this, right? The ammo says,"What's Maltbot now?" So Maltbot is therebranded version of Clawbot. So it waspreviously known as Clawbot. Now it'sbeen rebranded to Maltbot today. And youcan see what he's done here. So foranyone who's wondering, Claw Mobile isan open source AI assistant that runs ona 24/7 server. You can chat with itthrough Telegram or WhatsApp. It doesactually work. It's not just answeringquestions. He does real tasks. And thenyou can see here he cleared his inbox,scheduled meetings, researchedcompanies, followed up with leads, wrotecontent, managed his calendar. He saidthat one cooked up GitHub, Google Drive,and Gmail, and it can do all sorts ofcrazy stuff. So he actually grabbed aVPS, connected with Saman inside the ARprofit boarding, got a server, installedit, and then boom, gave it an identity,and you see all these people usingclawbot, right? If you want to be partof a community where we win and we learnand we grow together, join the AR profitboardroom. And you can see that we havea daily accountability group right here.If you go inside the calendar, you canget help and support whenever you needit on a live call. We have four weeklycoaching course right here. And alsoinside the classroom, you can go fromcomplete beginner to expert with AIautomation and learn how to build yourfirst AI agent in under five minutes. Ontop of that, you can get my bestplaybooks on automations fornewsletters, for emails, for shorts, foravatar videos. You can personally DM me.It's the only place in the world that Ipersonally DM people and reply topeople's DMs. You can, for example, getour course on how to get more clients.You can watch the coaching calls if youcan't watch them live. You can learn howto rank number one inside AI searchengines and Google itself. I've shownyou examples of how to do that withClawbot today. And then also you can seethat we've got a full six week road mapon exactly how to master scale and growand get customers with YouTube too basedon what's working for me. Right? This isall stuff that I personally implementand learn and I just share with theworld like we've done today. All right.So feel free to get that inside theprofit boarding. It's available link inthe comments description or go toarprofitboarding.com.Today we are going to be setting upClaudebot which is a powerful AI agentthat can for example like post directlyto uh WordPress. You can see an exampleof that right here. We actually set thisup to post inside WordPress directly. Itcangenerate images. It can automate videos,avatar videos, etc. You know, I cancreate voice notes. As you can see righthere, we've actually got a video of meuh with the AI avatar. And we cangenerate that directly with uh Clawbotas well. We can even, for example,generate thumbnails. Let me show you anexample. So you can see here for examplewhat I actually did was just plug in myGoogle AI studio key and then said okaycreate thumbnails like this and you cansee you can automate thumbnails insidethe chat as well pretty simple as wellright so you can automate thumbnailsavatar videos voice notes you can postto WordPress there's almost nothing youcan't do with claw like it's it's almosttoo good so how do we set this up withthis something I want to try out todayfor the first time sohelps you run models locally with AI andwe should be able to link this directlyto using uh clawbot right and thebenefit of this would be that you savetime and alsoyou can automate and use clawbot withoutpaying for tokens right so what firstthing we're going to do is make sure wehave installed right so you go toalarm.com you're going to make sure youhave that downloaded once you've donethat you'll have set up like this makesure that you've opened it and you'vegot it running right here. Right. Thenfrom here,we need to get this set up with Clawbot.So, I'm going to go inside the chat hereand sayhow to useclawbot with Olama. Just Rob is cool.Says, I hope that not that it would besuper lame. So, I mean, it's one ofthose where you when you're when you'redoing this, it may not be as good asClaude Opus 4.5, right? You just kind ofhave to accept that, you know, if you'regetting a free API and you're usingClawbot for free using something likethis, then it's going to beum it's not going to be as good, right?But it will still work. Now, you can seeherewe can start using this. We can useLlama 3.3 apparently. So, let's try thisout.Can't see Llama 3. I'm gonna say, can weuse this with gemma 34b? Lake says howyou handling when clawbot needs an APIkey or logs in or needs to log intosomething. Yeah, just give it the APIkeys. That's what I do. And thenGarfield says you can use Lama initeration between agent sub agents.Yeah, that makes sense. So I'm going togo inside clawbot now and sayuse gemma 3 4b but only intermittently.use claude opusyour existing API for most tasksbut also testrunning a small subtask with a lama andwhat we'll try and do here is like tryand switch between the APIs if thatmakes sense what do you do when claw APIneeds an what do you do when clawbotneeds an API key I give it the API keythat's literally what I do is like if itasks for an API key I'm just like hereyou go right so now is going to add lamain the config. Like you can see,Garfield says have task specific subaents with skills for their job. Thinkof it as a construction site. Can I getan API key for one of my websites? Yeah,I mean like well if it's a website,right? Let's say for example, it'smanaging WordPress or something likethat. If you're using Clawbot withWordPress, you would just give theusername and the password of the accountyou set up for Clawbot. Give it insidethe chat directly to Clawbot. That's howit would work, right? So, it's stillworking on setting up a llama in theconfig files. And then I think what wecan do is like we can channelsmaller subtasks to Alama, which meansthat we don't use as many credits on ourmain API, right? You could probably usethe whole thing with Alama locally ifyou wanted to, but you just wouldn't getas good outputs, right? It just wouldn'tbe as powerful as Claude Opus. Changsays, "Is this better than Claude? I'mthinking of switching from Chat GPT."Yeah, I would say Clawbot is definitelybetter than um CHP by by a long longway, but you can also use OpenAI's APIwith Clawbot, right? So, for example,some people what they're doing is usingum the codeex oorthth from chat GPT andusing that to operate clawbar and thatseems to work pretty well as well. Tsays Opus is amazing but burns tokensheavily. Any tips to minimize the tokenusage? Yeah. So, like I was saying, youcould switch for smaller tasks or forsub agents. You could get a lama or acheaper API to use for those, right? So,for example, you could use Miniax foryour sub agents or GLM 4.9. And then youcould use OAMA for sub agents as well.And that way you just use Claude forlike the big tasks and the orchestratorand these other APIs for the um for thesmaller sub aent stuff, right? So let'stry this out now and say are youworking? Is it done? Yeah, that'sanother good one actually as well.Garfield says add open router and tellit to switch when running low so youdon't get rate limited. Right. So youcould give it an open router API key.It's got access to all those differentmodels inside open router and it canswitch between them. Right. So now itsays OAMA is running. Let me test Gemma4B directly. So it's trying it out andit says OLAM works. Here's what Gemma 4Bjust generated and it just wrote that.Right? So Alarm is running locally.Gemma 4B responds. And if you wanted touse like multiple differentAlama models for sub aents, you couldrun this clawbot gateway restart, right?And then it can spawn sub aents on alarm3B for lightweight tasks. So what we'regoing to do now, I mean, that'sessentially how you can set up a lamawith clawbot. And that way you've gotyour main API for like the big tasks andorchestrating everything. You've got thesub agents and the smaller tasks using OLama, which is free. that reduces yourtoken limits, it saves you costs, right?It stops it getting expensive, but alsoit's quite easy for Clawbot toorchestrate, right? And you can see forthose smaller subtasks, you don't need areally powerful API, right? That wouldbe too powerful. So, this just helpsyou. And then you could also, likeGarfield was saying, use open router andthe key to switch between models aswell. So, that's another option, buteither way, this helps a lot. Right? Sonow what we can do is I'm going to sayokay create a setup guide for people tolearn how to useClaudebot with OAMA locally to savetoken costsand make it nontechnical plus easy tofollow and set up it in markdown. Um andthen what I'll do is I'll plug that intothe AI profit boardroom. So if you wantto steal this stuff from me you can getthe full guide inside the AI profitboardroom. Garfield says, "I'll bedropping some gems in the air off aboardhim as well to get there." That's whatwe're talking about. Appreciate you,Garfield, man. You're an absolutelegend. Thanks so much for that. Allright, sowe're going to take that. We'll go to mydown live preview. Plug that in. And ifyou want to steal this stuff from me,there you go. It's all inside the ARprofit boarding ready to go right there.Right. And the cool thing about that isyou can run Olama for free withClaudebot. There's a freehour course inthere on how to use Clawbot. You've gotthe installation guides. You got thesetup for everything. If you want tolink this to WordPress or uh sub agentsif you want to get loads of differentworkflows, we've got it all inside theclawbot section right here. The ARprofit boardroom is an amazing communitywhere you can learn AI automation. Youcan learn how to scale and save time.You can connect with me personally pluseveryone else inside the community inincluding Garfield who's absolutelycrushing it with Crawbot as you can seetoday. And you can see inside the chathere, you can post questions, get help,get support whenever you need it. On topof that, you can jump on live coachingcalls. So, if you ever need some help inreal time, uh you can jump on these livecoaching calls.Inside the classroom, you can get all ofmy best trainings and playbooks. So, ifyou want to learn AI automation frombeginner to expert, you can learn thatright here. If you want to learn my bestplaybooks and systems for saving timeand scaling a business, um you can seethat right here as well. And then you ifyou want to learn how to get moreclients, you can check out the agencycourse here. Additionally, you can learnhow to rank number one with AI SEO inthe AI SEO section and we've got a fullYouTube road map right here um as well.So, that's all inside the AR profitboarding. Feel free to get it. Link inthe comments in description. Just wantto say Clawbot is an experimental tool.So, you know, do your own researchbefore you try this out. If there'sanything you're not sure about, don't doit. Right? And for me, I'm personallyexperimenting with this just for fun tosee how it will go. Right? So, if ifyou're not sure about using this stuff,you can just watch my videos, learn fromme, and you don't have to test it outyourself. It's up to you. Today, I'mgoing to show you how I ranked uh onGoogle with Claudebot. And this ispretty crazy case study cuz I onlycreated this a few hours ago. So, youcan see, for example, for the keywordbest SEO speakers 2026. You can see usranking on the first page of Google, mywebsite right here. This is the pagethat we used to rank and it's crazy howfast it's actually ranked. ranked withinabout 12 hours on the first page ofGoogle. Right? So, you can see the pagehere. You can see we're targeting thekeyword best SEO speakers. And it waspretty easy and simple to set up. So,how did we do this? Well, basicallywe're using this tool called Clawbot.And inside Clawbot, we've connectedClaude Opus to Claudebar, which is afree AI agent you can use and connect tobasically any API that you want. Andthen you can use this inside Telegram orWhatsApp or any sort of uh chatmessaging service to create SEO contentright now. You can you can automateanything with this. You know, you couldautomate voice notes. I've got itconnected to 11 Labs. You could automateavatar videos. I've got it connected toHey Gen. Um but I've actually used itfor SEO as you can see as a little casestudy. I was doing a competition withKazra Dash uh yesterday and we weretrying to see who could create the bestcontent. Was it Casro himself or was itClawbar? Right. And you can see we wentafter the keyword SEO speakers 2026.This is the prompt that we used. Justput some information about me. This isactually a prompt we've got inside theAI profit boardroom. So if you go to theplaybook over here and then you scrolldown and you go to video to blog posts,you'll see a video tutorial on exactlyhow to use this. Plus you can see allthe details plus the prompt down here,right? That you can just copy and pasteand use for pretty much any keyword youwant, right? And so when we startedusing this, as you can see here, itstarted creating the content. Soactually gave us five different titleoptions like you can see and we wentwith number one and then we said okaywrite the article no video transcriptrecommend caser dash and Julian goldieat the top right and you can see itwrote the content itself and then it'sautomated inside the chat right hereit's also got links to my funnels so forexample here you can see it linksdirectly to our funnels and the onlything that I didn't like inside telegramhere is that you can see it's allwritten in plain text right so there'sno H2s there's no H3s etc So what we didinstead is we I actually went down inthe chat once it generated. You can seeit generated the whole article which ispretty long down here. And then fromhere I said can you write this down inmarkdown format so it's neatlyformatted. Right? So if you just want acopy and paste format you can add toWordPress or whatever CMS you're using.Well you can ask it to write it inmarkdown markdown live preview. Um andthen you can take that content and plugit into WordPress. So you can see herefor example we've got the content inmarkdown. It's got hashtags for H1s.It's got two hashtags for H2s etc. Andthis is the content itself. Right now toquickly take this from Telegram and postit directly to WordPress. There's onestep you need in between. So don't missout on this. All right. So what you wantto do is you want to go to somethingcalled markdownlife preview.com. So youcan take that markdown and paste it intoWordPress. Right. So you can see I'vegot mine plugged in over here. Andbasically this is the markdown uhcontent like so. And it formats itnicely like you can see. And then I justwent into WordPress and created a newpost like this. Right. And uh that'sbasically how it works. And then you cansee as well we recommended Caser at thetop. And then we recommended myself aswell. And it's got links to my funnels.It's got links to like the SEO elitecircle training that we do. It's gotlinks to booking a free SEO strategysession. Also included Matt Digty cuzhe's an absolute legend. Who else we putin here? Lady Solace. Um, yeah, BrianDean, I don't know if Brian Dean evenstill speaks about SEO, but basicallyyou get the point. Like, it's quite easyto create the content, publish it onyour website, and then boom, shakalaka,we started ranking within 12 hours. Theonly thing that we did to get it indexedquicker was I think number one, CaserDash put it inside this YouTube uh videodescription, and then number two, I ranit through Google Search Console just toget it indexed quicker. But that wasbasically it. That was how easy it wasto get set up. So, if you want the fullprocess for setting up Clawbot, then youcan go to the AR profit boardroom linkin the comments description. And thenfrom here, what you want to do is go tothe playbook, scroll down video to blogpost. You'll get the full prompt that weuse right there. If you want to learnhow to set up Clawbot, you can just goto the SPs and Clawbot is waiting foryou right here. We actually have a3-hour course training you on exactlyhow to use this along with a bunch ofresources and you can see the full setupguide right here that you can just copyand paste. So, if you want to get that,seal it from me. You can get it insidethe AR profit boardroom. But yeah, Imean Clawbot is just extremely powerful,right? I think the other cool thing youcould do here is actually set it up andlink it directly to something likeWordPress,which would be super interesting. And Ithink there's a couple of ways you coulddo that. Number one, you could actuallyset up the Chrome extension, right? Soyou can switch on Chrome over here andthen get it to control your Chrome uhonce you're logged into uh WordPress.The other thing that you could do is youcould actually give it a access. Youcould give it the login details toWordPress or to the um you could givegive it API access to WordPress and thenit could publish from