And you can see this is nowbeginning toget back to us. But yeah, we've got thisreal time voice agent chat right now aswell. So how it says I came here forpopcorn. want to see is a dude typing.Well, yeah. I mean, it's it's a lot oftyping, isn't it, with AI? I I guess Icould use link whisper flow as well.Now, when it comes to running theextension, the Chrome extension onClawbot, let me show you how you dothis. Right. So, we actually have a fullstep-by-step guide inside the ARprofitable boardroom. But essentially,what you want to do is control Chromewith this browser extension, right? So,you can see that we've got this set upright here. And then if we went insidemobile, we obviously went with for it toto create this notion page first, but wecan basically go inside here and saylike control my browser for me, right?And we can do that directly throughTelegram or inside the TUI like you seeright here, right? So how do we do this?Well, they have all this documentationlike you can see for mobile here andyou've got two options. You can do likebrowser login, you can do browser or youcan do Chrome extension. So if you wantto install the Chrome extension, all youdo is you just install it via terminalhere, right? So you would do mbotbrowser extension install then mobilebrowser extension path. Then you'regoing to go to Chrome extensions likethis. Enable developer mode loader packto pin the extension like you can seeI've got pinned over there. And that'sbasically how you can use it. Right?It's pretty simple and easy. And thenonce that's done, it's good to go. Nowyou can see also whilst we waiting forthat to be done, it's now created thepage inside notion on how to build thelocal voice bar which we created just asecond ago using this. Right? So, if youwant to get the full guide on that, whatI'm going to do is put it inside the SAPsection of the AR profit boardroom. Adda new page here. In fact, we'll just putthis inside the existing guidance here.And we can just create like a crazyultimate setup guide. So, if you want tobuildsomething like this, let me grab ascreenshot. Copy that. Go back tomobile. Plug this in. Take theinformation from this. This page isprivate, so it's not shared witheveryone. So, we're just going to grabthat. We're going to go back tohere. And now we've set up thestep-by-step guide for voice agents,right? And you can see we've got loadsof setup guides on like how to useNotion and everything else inside mobileas well, right? But yeah, it's prettyawesome. So, just to recap, what have wedone so far? Well, we created a voiceagent that responds in real time thatlooks like mobile and responds asmobile. You can also see, for example,we have created a page inside notion. Sothis links to notion and publishesdirectly. We can also do the same insideuh our WordPress website as well. So ifI say okay build um publish a page aboutit on WordPress too via julangoldie.comit will actually go off and do that toobecause it has my WordPress logindetails. And basically the way that youdo that is you just give it the website,the login page,the username and password for you knowthe separate user of mobile. Don't giveit any permissions that you're notcomfortable with. And then you canpublish directly to your website as wellwhich is pretty cool. Pets event sayshave fun. Vinard says hi. Feel free toask any questions about mobile if you'relike struggling with setting it up orany questions you got or anything.Always happy to help when it comes tostuff like that. Timewatch says Discordis a lot more reliable. So I might haveto try that too. One of the things Iwill say is like using the oorthth ofcodeex you don't get charged any extrabecause you're using the oorthth rightwhich is nice. You're not gettingcharged per token and then you just usethe token limits within uh chat cheapyand openi and it basically just givesyou a login page that you can go to aswell. Whilst we're waiting for that toload let me show you some other coolstuff. So we've got for example skillshere. So it can like manage Apple notes,Apple reminders. You've got all sorts ofstuff like blog watcher. So what thiscan do is actually monitor blogs right?So for example, if you have a competitorin SEO or a competitor that's publishingblogs, you can actually blog watch themusing this. It has something else calledwhere is it? Bird. And Bird basicallythis is like a X Twitter CLI. So it canread, search, post, and engage as welldirectly with Twitter too, which ispretty insane. What else we got here? Itcan connect directly to GitHub.Basically any tool that you throw at it,it can almost do. You can also see we'vegot this codeex bar CLI so you canactually see your local usage as well ifyou want to which is pretty cool. So youcan see how much you've used and we'vegot uh nano banana on there too. So youcan add a key for nano banana so you cangenerate images and that sort of thingdirectly inside the chat as well asopenai images too. Then we've got openwhisper. So that's a local speech totext model and yeah there's just so manythings you can add on here. I thinkhonestly half the battle is figuring outokay what can you do and what can't youdo. So you can see here that we'vepublished the blog post. Now we go overto this page. Boom. It's just created apage on WordPress and it says build themobile voice bot local step by step.Right? And it's basically created astep-by-step guide on exactly how toinstall voice botsusing OpenAI based on what worked forme. Right? So this is the voice bot thatwe created. And you can see it'sbasically gone to WordPresson my website, published a full guide onhow to set it up. I don't reallyunderstand any of this stuff. Um, but itjust did it, right? It's pretty insane.It's pretty insane. So, um, you can seelike it's really powerful for forcreating content, for creating toolslike this, for publishing to notion. Youcan create avatar videos as well. So,it's done that in the past for me aswell. Um, along with like thumbnails andthat sort of thing. So, the the crazything is well, like you can operate thisfrom Telegram or WhatsApp or Discorddirectly from your phone. And then thecool thing about that is like any deviceit's synced to whatever outputs you got.Remote AI agent says that's crazy.Someone says did you see that people arenot using secure methods with mobile andexposing? Yeah. So basically there's twothere's two things you got to be carefulof here. Right. Let me put this in theDo you know what? I should put it insidethe dock here. Right. So there's twothings you got to be careful of. Twothingsto be careful of. All right. Number one,prompt injection. Right? So, I don'tknow if you can even read that. There wego. So, for example,if you have your emails connectedand someone emails that address,you have to be careful, right? Andthat's actually why I removed emailsfrom mobile because for example like ifsomeone emails my address and says likedelete all my emails, well that could bean issue, right? So that's one of theissues to be careful of. And then theother thing to be careful of is VPS. Soif you if you if you're using a VPS,people can access that VPS gateway fromanywhere, right? And so the biggestissue with that is like if you exposeyour gateway and you allow someone elseto log into your mobile and you've gotall your tools connected, well that'snot very good, right? And so what youwant to do is just install some MCPS forsecurity um to make sure that's okay,right? So those are the two things youneed to be careful of when it comes tousing clawbot. And then the the finalthing I would say here is just, youknow, general rule of thumb here. Ifyou're not sure,don't do it. Right?That's I I genuinely I would say like ifif this if you're doing something onmobile and you're like not sure what ifI know what I'm doing right now. I'm notsure if I feel comfortable with this.Well, don't do it, right? Like justwatch my videos and I'll be the guineapig and and show you what we can do. Andthat way you know you're not doinganything that you're not sure about oryou're not careful with and that sort ofthing. So that's basically it. That'show you can use Moldbot. There's allsorts of crazy stuff you can do. It'spretty much endless when it comes tothis stuff. You can connect it toTelegram. We have so far, let's see whatwe've done here. So, just to recap,we've published a WordPress blog post.We have created a voice agent thatconnects and speaks in real time. Theblog post right here, we actually rankedon Google in like 12 hours using this.We published directly to notion. And theother cool thing here as well, so we canoperate our Chrome browser. So, you seehow it says clawbot browser relaystarted debugging this browser. So if wesay okayGoogle using Chrome extension whathappened in the AI industry today isgoing to start controlling our Chromebrowser using mobile and the chat rightand soall of these crazy things are like theseare those are all like different bitsthat you can add on different skills andthe more information and the more youmore tools you add to mobile the morepowerful it becomes right so it's notjust like an NAM workflow or a Lindy AIagent where you can like do somethingand and set it up once. It's likeliterally every time you add a newskill, it becomes exponentially morepowerful, right? And it compounds and itgets better. And also the other coolthing here is it remembers your wholeconversation, right? So it can rememberwhat we've done, what we said, etc. Soyou can see using the Chrome extensioninstallation method that we talked aboutearlier. You can see here, for example,it's it's broken down all the themes,how it works, etc. And if you want tolearn how to set this up with Claudebot,we've actually got the installationinstructions directly inside the AIprofit boardroom on exactly how to setup the Chrome extensionwith mobile directly inside the AIprofit boardroom. So just go toclassroom here, then go to SAP updatesand you got it all inside there. Sothat's pretty much it for me. That ishow crazy Mobot is. You can basically doanything. You can automate anything,build anything with it. Be careful withit. Don't do anything you're notcomfortable with. Um, if you want tolearn more about scaling with AIautomation, if you want to save time, ifyou want to learn the systems I use forAI personally, then you can check outthe AI profit boardroom. This is anamazing community with 2,200 members.You can post inside the community, gethelp and support whenever you need it.So, you can see, for example, lots ofpeople are posting and getting answerswhenever they need them. Loads of peopleare winning with this stuff as well. So,you can see, for example, we check outthe win section here. You see SteveLight crushing it. We've got Kevin whobuilt his very first app with AI, whichis school for Windows. pretty insane.You've got, for example, Raquel whobuilt her first email assistant, right?So, people are just building theseamazing things. And it's not just mewho's getting results with AI inside theAI profitable room. It's like so manypeople are winning with this, which iswhat it's all about. And also, you canjump on live coaching calls four times aweek, so you can get help and supportwhenever you need it. And inside theclassroom here, you can learn how to gofrom complete beginner to expert with AIautomation, plus how to build your firstAI agent in under 5 minutes. You'll getall my best playbooks on how to use AI.So, for example, how to automate youremails, X, newsletters, shorts,Instagram AI avatar videos, etc. Andthen also, if you want to get all mybest trainings, including threehourcourse on exactly how to use Maltbot,plus all my best setup guides for likethe Chrome extension, for setting upbrowser control, for um setting it upwith WordPress directly, like you cansee for setting it up locally with OAM,if you are running out of credits or youwant to use it with a local model, we'vegot a full guide right there. If youwant to be able to deploy websites withClawbot and publish them straight toNetlify, we've actually done that. Ifyou actually check out this website thatwe created for the AR profit boardroom,which is ranking number one for itskeyword, um, this was fully created withMobot yesterday. We just coded the wholething with mobile. It's it's insane. Andit deployed it using the Netlefipersonal token that I gave it to. So,this is all inside the AR profitboardroom, the setup guide as well. Weshow you how to connect it to notion,plus how to build your very first um,voice agent like we showed you earlier.So feel free to get that link in thecomments description. Today we are goingto be running through Maltbot becauseClawbot is just rebranded to Maltbotlike you can see right here. As you cansee the open source Clawbot powered byAnthropics Claude models and runninglocally on Mac, Windows or Linuxswitched to Maltbot following atrademark concern from Anthropic overthe similar Clawude name. So you can seehere they've actually switched over andthey've molted. And as you can see here,Clawbot is now Mbot and Claude is nowcalled Multi. All right. So they've keptthe same icon and everything else. It'sjust switched over to Mbot. I think theyhad some trademark issues withAnthropic. Obviously, it sounded verysimilar. And you can see the updatesright here. They've also announced a fewupdates for Claw as well, which I'llcover in a second. So, if you've notseen it already, let's go over to GitHuband we can look at the latest change logover here. But if you're not familiarwith Maltbot, let me talk you throughexactly what it could do. So, here's anexample. Before I actually went on tothis live stream, I said, "Create avoice note about Maltbot, an AI avatarvideo, plus a YouTube thumbnail, pluspublish a blog post about Maltbot AIassistant." right here. And you see itstarted generating the Hey Jen videousing the AI avatar and actually createda voice note in my voice as you can seeright here. Let's play this back.>> What's up everyone? Let me tell youabout the AI system that's absolutelychanging the game. It's a personal AIassistant that actually does things notjust chatting. We're talking aboutclearing your inbox, sending emails,managing calendar, even checking you infor flights. And the crazy part, it allhappens through WhatsApp, Telegram, orwhatever chat app you use. Here's whatmakes it insane. Your context and skillslive on your computer, not some garden.It's completely open source. You've gotSo, you can see here that basically it'screated the voice note about Mobot. Alsogenerated this YouTube thumbnail likeyou can see as well. So, it's using NanoBanana and Google's API to generate thatdirectly. And the actual thumbnail looksreally cool. Literally, all we said wascreate a thumbnail. and it generatedsomething that honestly was number onefaster but number two better than whatmost my team could produce if they werethumbnail designers. Right? And then ontop of that, we've also got the blogpost right here. So this is the blogpost for using Maltbot Timewatch says,"Does Telegram need to be the maininterface for using Maltbot?" It doesn'tneed to be. No, not at all. You can useSo you can use the inbuilt with Clawbotwhich is hosted locally. The otheroption that you have is yes you can usetelegram you but you can also usediscord you can use WhatsApp I thinkthey just released a new line update aswell let me have a look here we shouldhave the change log let's have a look atthe change log MD here all right so wecan see the new changes on 26th so youcan see here rebrand they renamed thempm package CLI to mop as you can seeand then I think what they've also donehere is they added a line channel guideright so you can actually connect thiseven to line which is like an Asian likechat app. As you can see they've alsoset up a web UI too. Yeah. And all thisis set up and ready to go. So you canuse Telegram, Slack, you can use Mac OS,whatever you want, right? It doesn'thave to be Telegram at all. Yeah. Youcan see it actually went straight to myWordPress website. So earlier I actuallygave Mobot my login details to WordPressand then it's published a bunch of blogsto my site. And literally all I have todo is go inside Telegram, tell it what Iwant to create. like you can see overhere. So this is a blog post and then wecan generate this pretty quickly as youcan see and it formats it really nicely.So it does a nice title. So it saysmobile the AI system actually doesthings 2026 review blah blah blah. It'sformatted it nicely straight to thepoint. It's got some nice bullet points,some quotes of people using it, somereal use cases and even the link. Andthen also here's a cool thing. Itfunnels traffic to our funnels like yousee right here in the blog post. Now, ifwe want to publish this, all we do is wehit publish and then boom, we've got ablog post ready to go literally from aTelegram message. So, it's pretty crazywhat mobile can do. It is superpowerful. I think a lot of people don'trealize how powerful it actually is. Itcan control your browser as well. So,for example, I can toggle this, switchthis on as you can see, right? And thenwe can say, okay, search Google for thelatest AI news or I don't know, do aGoogle search for Julian Goldie.Something like that, right? Research me.And what we can do is just say, okay, goto use my Chrome extension to do this.And by the way, whilst we're waiting forthat to load, if you haven't checked outalready, check out the AI profit board.This comes with all the setup notes plusa 3-hour course on how to use mobile. Soif you want to learn exactly how itworks, how to use it, etc., you canlearn that inside the AI profit boardlink in the comments description or goto arprofitboarding.com. You can also DMme if you have any questions. And youcan see Mobot has Googled Julian Goldieover here. All right, so it was prettyquick to do that and did it directlyfrom