Telegram, which is pretty insane aswell. By the way, if you have anyquestions as we go along, feel free toask. I've spent a lot of time testingmobile and it's by far the best updatethat I've seen this year. Genuinely,it's one of the few ones that canactually like go off and just do stuffin the web, right? Like you can no codethis with NA10 where you have to set upa workflow and then link all the nodestogether and get all your differentAPIs. Using Clawbot, you can basicallydo the same thing, but you set it up inminutes, not hours. And also is not somuch messing around with APIs. Plus, youdon't need external service like NA10.So, it's super powerful stuff. There'salso a new Olama update. By the way, youcan see here it generated a hey genYouTube video. So, if we go to Lama, youcan see that they literally justannounced 5 hours ago that you can useand in one command get this up andrunning with Clawbot. So the way thatthis works if you want to for exampleuse this with clawbot is you can setthis up without like messing around withany sort of stuff right so literally allyou do is you install clawbot follow iton boarding and then from there you canconfigure it with lama so if you go onto terminal here and we'll open up a newterminal like so we'll go to new windowset up like that and you can justdownload the new update for and thenonce you've done that you You can runoama launch clawbot and it will looksomething like this once you set it upand then you can host it locally. Alsodo the same with open code too. But yeahthat's a pretty cool update that's justcome out with alarm 2. All right so sofar what have we done? We have usedmobile to control our browser to createavatar videos to create voice notes. Itcan also for example use nana bananathumbnails. Pretty simple and easy. NowI'll be interested to see if we canconnect this to X as well. So, if we goinside the chat here and we're like,okay, can you post to X for me? If so,how do you just need my login details?And we'll see if this can start using Xand Twitter directly using my logindetails. I'm not going to give it mymain accounts details. I'll give it atest account. See how it performs.Breakthrough says breakthrough soon.That's what we're talking about. Methodone, browser cookies. If you're loggedinto X Chrome, I can grab the offcookies automatically. Or you can usebird. So you go to x.com, open devtools, and then you can go from there.All right, let's try this out. So I'mactually going to log out of my normal Xaccount, and we'll switch to this one.So this is like a secondary account,like you can see. All right, and thenfrom here, what we're going to do is weneed to open up dev tools applicationtab cookies. Okay, so F12. We need topress time says, yeah, I'm still scaredto give access to my real accounts. Iwould agree with you. I wouldn't doanything that you're not comfortablewith, right? So, if you're notcomfortable with something that you'redoing, just be careful and you don'tneed to do anything you don't need to.So, I'm going to open this up now.Obviously, I'm going to have to stopsharing my screen. All right. So, we'reback on. Yeah. So, that's one of theways you can use it. You can use it withX and that sort of thing. You can postto WordPress. Also, one thing that Iwant to test here is linking it out toNetlify. So what we can do is we can goto Netlify like this and then we cancreate a new access token. So I'm justgoing to do that in the background. Andnow if we go back to Clawbot, you cansee we've connected to Netlfy 2. Right?So it says done. You got 10 sites ready.Here's a bunch of stuff that you got.You can deploy. You can update existingwebsites and push new versions etc.Right? So for example here if we're likeokay here's my community. All right. Sowe'll grab the details of the AR profitboard. like you can see. Then we'regoing to go back over to Clawbot andwe'll say here's some info about the AIprofit bordering. Can you create abeautiful modern landing page pointingto it? Make it a direct response salespage optimized to convert. Right? Andbasically what we can do here is we cancode out the page and then we can deployit with Netlefi as well. So you can seehere it says on it building a highconverting direct response page. Now,David says, "I think this is the AIJulian." Claudebot, a starting versionof Iron Man Jarvis. Yeah, I would agree.I think it is like pretty much there.Honestly, any task that you give to avirtual assistant, you can now give toMaltbot instead. So, for example,publishing WordPress, there's no pointgiving to assistant anymore, right? Youmight as well just give that to Clawbotand Clawbot can post directly on thereand it'll be better formatted and nicerwritten in the way that you want itusing that. Right? David says, "Hasanyone here got experience of using theAR profit boardroom?" So, I actually gotuh 115 pages of testimonials right hereif you want to check them out. These areall screenshots of people who are sayingthank you or sharing their wins with theArprofit Boardroom link in the commentsdescription or just go to ArprofitBoardroom if you want to sign up, right?Arprofitboard.com. The other cool thingabout this is you can connect with me.Plus, we have a full training module onClawbot, how to set it up, how I've gotit working so well, some of the bestthings I've set up. You can see here weliterally in a couple of minutes haveset this up to create landing pages anddeploy them to Netlify. What I'm goingto do over here is we're going to goback over here and I'm going to take alittle screenshot and then we'll copythat. Go back to Clubbot and say you canonly see the code, not the page. Pleasefix. But yeah, it's pretty insane whatyou can do. So, if you want to learn allthis stuff, you want to learn how toimplement this for you, check out the AIprofit border for sure. And it's fixingthe deployment right here. So, if we goback to Clawbot now, we should have thatready to go. Let's try out. Boom. Lookat that. We lit This is insane, isn'tit? It's just silly at this point. We'vegot the page ready to go deployed on asubdomain. This is via Netlifi. You cansee it's created this beautiful page asyou can see, and it's funneling trafficto the AI Pop for Boardroom. I do needto fix a page. We'll do that in asecond. All right. And if you do havechanges for it, it can recode it andthen improve it. Right. So, if I go backto the clawbot now and I say, okay, canyou make sure the link goes to this pagealso? I want to embed this video fromVimeo. So, I'm going to grab that. Grabthe embed code. There we go. Embed thisvideo. And then also add more copy toconvince people to sign up. Also, wehave 2,200 people in there. Plus, weupdate it daily with live streamcoaching with me, too. All right, so youcan see how we can like just quicklyupdate pages that we create and projectsthat we create as well. And yeah, it'spretty simple and easy. KK says, "I'm abeginner and need to learn moldbot."Yes. So, check out the air profitboredom if you learn that. Actually,when you sign up, we'll ask you what youwant to learn and then we'll give yousome options so we can guide you on theright journey and you can just followwhat we teach you. So far, what was thehardest task Clawbot did? So, it couldedit videos using Remotion, right? Thatwas pretty impressive. It can createavatar videos automatically inside thechat. That was pretty amazing. It cancreate articles that actually rank onGoogle. So, if we go on to Google hereand we type in best SEO speakers 2026,right? And then we scroll down, you'llsee this article that we created withClawbot just 12 hours ago is alreadyranking on the first page of Google,right? So within 12 hours, we rank thisarticle on Google using Clawbot and itcan publish directly to WordPress aswell. So pretty insane. Now you can seeClawbot is responding and it will startcreating that page. It's 6:30 a.m. andI'm here to learn. That's what we'retalking about. What a big mess. NowClawbot is falling a lot because thename rebrand. That's one of the reasonsI created this live stream today wasjust so that people are aware of whatthe change is and what's happened. Waybocode says, "Are you on the max plan?"Yes, would recommend. But also you canset up O Lama if you haven't seen thatalready inside the air profit boarding.If you go to the classroom here then yougo to SAP updates right you'll find atthe bottom we have a full section on howto set up Lama. So if you want to seeall that from me see all the setup thenyou can get that inside the profitboardroom with clawbot. We also show youfor example how to basically build andautomate anything using clawbot and alsohow to set up the AI browser agent too.So if you want to learn all this stuff,we've got loads of trainings inside theAI profitable boredom. And also we havea full section here on my case study ofhow I ranked number one in 12 hoursusing Clawbot AI SEO. So if you want tolearn this stuff, check it out insidethe AI profit world. Just go to theclassroom and then SP updates like youcan see. So now we have redeployed thenew landing page and you can see we'veactually added the VSSL at the top. It'sincluded this section blah blah blah. toinclude like the number of calls perweek, what it does, etc. And then Ithink we could actually use Netleifi toreplace the old version of the AI profitvolume with the new one. Just to comparethese side by side, this is prettyinsane, too. Some of you watching willbe using tools like Manis, which Metajust acquired. This was created withManis. You can see, and it's not a badwebsite, but it's not great. It's notgreat. Right now, let's have a look atthis one. So, this is the new websitethe Clawbot created. And you see how itjust looks more beautiful. It looks moremodern. It looks more interesting. It'sgot more urgency at the top. That isdesigned much better to convert, right?And we just did it inside Telegram withone or two prompts. It's pretty insane.Now, if I go back to Telegram here, Ishould be able to deploy this directlyto the old main domain, right? So if Igo inside here and I say okay now deploythis to aiprofit boardroom.comand replace the old content on that pagevia net right what it should be able todo is basically deploy this content onarprofitboarding.comso that we can update it via thepersonal access token of netlefi. Now,that's really important because we cancode, we can build landing pages, we cancreate lead magnets, we can createsqueeze pages, etc. using our customdomains on Netlify as you can see righthere. So, it's deploying to a profitboardroom site and adding the customdomain and I don't have to log intoNetify. I don't have to mess around etc.And it's just so much more chill, right?You can see it adding the custom domaindown here. So, if we go on to theclawbot now, you can see that we havethis all set up, right? So we got thenew landing page deployed to theairprofitboarding.com with the videoembedded blah blah blah. If we go to theair profitboarding.com you can see it'snow added this right here right with theVSSL and the link. If we click on thelink it takes us straight to the landingpage for the AR profit boardroom andwe've just updated all the informationfor this particular page. Pretty nicequick and simple to set up as well.Right. So now if we go on to Google, wetype in AR profit boardroom. We've gotthis page ranking number one. And it isthe page that we just deployed and codedon Telegram using the Netlefi personalaccess token. All right. And that's howfast and easy it is to do this. Okay. Iactually need to delete this because Iliterally just showed it on the livestream. But that's basically how you canuse this. Right. So you can see hereit's all set. New landing page deployedto blah blah blah added right here. Andthat is working pretty nicely indeed. Soif you want to learn how to use that aswell, what I'm actually going to do isI'm going to say give me a setup guidefor linking and coding projects withNetlefi in simple language so thatanyone can learn how to do this, right?And then you've essentially got like anoode IDE inside Telegram set up thatcan basically code and create landingpages for you even if you don't know howto code or even if you don't really knowwhat you're doing, right? And I wouldsay that's an insane ID. I've never seenan IDE that you can use like this insuch a simple way. All right. So, forexample, here I'm going to take thisguide. Imagine this is a write the wholething in markdown. And then we canformat the guide properly. And if youwant to learn how to create beautifullanding pages like this, you can usingClawbot, Telegram, and Netify. Prettyinsane. It's great info. Thank you verymuch. If you want to see anything elsein particular, just let me know cuz I'mhappy to link or test new things for youand show you new crazy stuff. But it isamazing what you can do with this. It'sunbelievable. So, we've got the wholething set up right here. Let's copythat. We'll paste that in. So, we gotthe whole page here. There we go. Now,we can go back to our profit boardroom.Just go inside the S&P update sectionhere. go to Clawbot, you'll find thethree-hour course plus a whole setupguide. And if you want to learn how toset up Netify Wolf Mobot, you can do itright there. All right, so let's justrecap on what we've done so far todaycuz we have shown a lot of cool stuff.An insane amount really. All right, solet's talk about what have we done withMobot. You can publish blog postsdirectly to WordPress. You can use thisas an AI SEO agent. Communicate viamessaging apps like Telegram. Create AIavatar videos. Create voice notes in acloned version of your voice as weshowed earlier. Send emails. Organizeyour calendar. What else we got here?I'll be doing that course today. I hopeit helps you a lot. That's what it'sdesigned for. So, I'm glad you can enjoythat. Yeah. And if anyone else iswatching and wants access to the course,join the AR profit board. Just to recap,publish blog post directly to WordPress,use this as an AI SEO agents, createavatar videos, create voice notes. Youcan also create animations. Can it hookup to notion? Yes, it can. We can talkabout that in a second. Actually, we'lldo that in a second and hook it up tonotion. If you go back to clubbot, Ican't remember whether I've linkedGoogle Drive or not. So, I'm just goingto say, okay, send a quick email tojulian goldie@gmail.comsaying hello. If not, I might have todownload the JSON to set that up. We'llsee if that's ready or not. Boom. Allright. Message delivered. Hello fromClawbot. Check your inbox. Let's have alook. Yeah, look at that. Can sendemails, too. So, we said hello fromClawbot from me at julener.com. And justblasted it straight over. Crazy stuff,isn't it? Crazy stuff. All right. So, wecan send emails with this. And thenalso, you can code with no code. Deploylanding pages to custom domains as youcan see. So, let's try hooking it up tonotion. I don't really use Notion thatmuch, but I'm pretty sure I can get myhead around how to use mobile withnotion. So, let's try this out. Log inover here. All right. And then I'm goingto go inside Clawbot and I'll say, okay,how to connect you to notion. By theway, if anyone else is watching, youwant help, you want advice on thisstuff, feel free to ask now whilst I'monline. I don't know how long I'm goingto be doing this stream for, so feelfree to ask now whilst I'm online.You've got my attention. That's what I'mhere for. All right. So, here's what weneed to do. We need to go to myintegrations, new integration, name it.Okay. And then get the API key. Allright. So, I'm just going to do thatright now. Obviously, I'm not going toshare my screen when I do that. So, ifwe go back to notion here, we'veactually set this up with Claudebot. Allright. So, if we go inside here, we canconnect Clawbot. So, we could say, okay,create a new page called X with notesabout Y, right? or add a row to the dogsdatabase or search notion for anythingabout right. So if we say okay create anew page called maltbot and tell meeverything I need to know about it rightor just create a short beautiful notionabout it. What that should do is useclawbot to actually create the pagewhich we'll check out in a second andonce it's done as well I'll add a guideinside the a profitable volume on how toconnect notion step by step toclaudebot. So hopefully this helps youas much as you can. Muhammad says whatare you doing bro? So right now we'reconnecting mobile directly to notion sothat it can create pages and connect toour database directly. Right? So you cansee here for example we have now createdthis new page about maltbotautomatically did it directly throughtelegram and that is looking prettybeautiful right look how cool that is.That was crazy easy. All right so whatI'm going to do now I want to show yousomething else that's pretty interestinghere that most people don't know. So, ifwe go inside the chat here and we say,"Okay, now create a beautiful guideabout how to connect notion to mobile,right? But I need you to make sure thatit's in markdown format. Don't add anytables cuz you can't really have tablesdirectly inside the school. And thenalso add emojis plus explain it insimple third grade language step bystep. and then save this as a skillcalled guide creation which I'll use forcreating whenever I'm creating guide orwhat else SOPs etc. Okay, so just torecap