OK. The reason they're running so fast is because the runtime of this is now different from the evolution time. So we should maybe have the 30 step the 30 length solution is now happening in 10 seconds. Yeah. So let's let's run that again. But where we. So this is in the time it's actually supposed to be. So they start off together. And here's the classic. They'd be like they're so close together to start with. But now they're separated. And then after a little bit, it's as if they're doing completely different things. I want to jump in here real quick to explain that global update locals line, because it is such a ridiculously cursed line of code. But it has to do with a bug in the sort of IPython embed being used. So let me just show you what's going on here. Taking a super simple example, let's say I have this snippet of Python where I define some variable X. Let me make this bigger. And then I define this function of Y that's going to use that X. So it's defined outside of the function, but it's making use of that X. And then we're going to test, you know, what is like F of 10. So you expect it to return 13. And it'll do this if I run this as just a Python script. I run it from the terminal Python of that thing. It prints out for us F of 10 is equal to 13. All is well and good. Now inside that sort of IPython embed that's being used for Manim. If I take exactly the same code, exactly the same code, it behaves differently where it says name error, name X is not defined. Because I think what's happening is that when inside an IPython cell like this, it defines a new function. It doesn't necessarily share the same scope that it would in a normal Python environment. The catch all hack for how to get around this is to say, hey, I want X to be a global variable. In fact, to just have a universal catch all, I'm going to take the whole dictionary of global variables, which Python just gives you access to for some reason. And I'm going to say, hey, look at the dictionary of all local variables. That's going to include that X. I just want everything that's local to become global, which is obviously a horrifying thing to do if this was like code for a real library or something. But because we're just scrappily running it in this little interactive session purely for the purpose of scene development, it's not as dangerous. But if you were wondering or if you were vomiting at the screen, that's basically what's going on. It's that with this kind of interactive mode. Interestingly, it's not the case that that'll be a problem in just IPython if you run that from the terminal. Like if I take this code not using the dumb hack, it works just fine. So it has something to do with this notion of embedding such that we're dropping into the middle of a scene kind of like it's a debugger. If I'm missing someone, if someone knows like a better way to get around that, I'm all ears. Future future me here. Worth being clear about one thing here, which is that the better way to do this, if you have some function referencing some variable that it needs to use, is to just make that very explicit. So in this case, I could say X is an argument of the function, give it a default value, which is the X kind of defined in the same scope as where the function is defined. And then everything will work dandy and as you want. So in the scene that I was doing with Ben, if we look over at the very cursed line here, the better way to do that where it wants to reference curves is to basically say, hey, curves should actually be something explicit in there. Maybe an argument that defaults to the value that's going to be whatever it was on the outside. That will totally handle it. The reason I was in the habit of doing this, for one thing, it's maybe a little annoying to do that with lambdas on the fly and things like that. But the same bug would come up with list constructors. So if I was to define something like X plus Y for Y in range, I don't know, 10, something like that. And I want to see what this looks like. This is something where, you know, in normal Python, this X would be visible outside. And so if we were to actually run this, run this little test, it would do what we want. Whereas inside the manum environment, at least previously, so if I do all this and then I ran that code, previously that same bug would emerge. But when I was just looking at it now, it seems like actually it's fine. Whatever bug had been there that affected list constructors and things like that, it's fine. So maybe I should just get out of the habit of typing that incredibly cursed line and you can ignore the last five minutes. Anyway, back to actually finishing out that scene with Ben. Let's make those dots bigger. Can we give them radius one? I don't like red as the second color. I just think that looks kind of ugly. I often... Okay, that's a very big dot. But I guess I don't know. We see it. Yeah, we see it. That's maybe a little bit a little bit too big. So I might ease off on that. Again, I mean, it's a minor comment, but the aesthetics are handled for you. The glow dot, it's too big, right? But it still looks nice, even though it's big because you've paid attention to making a glow dot function, which makes a nice looking dot. So this is something I was going to ask about. This is interactive. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. And that wasn't obvious until you moved the axes. No, it's because everything is ultimately rendered and just like made into a YouTube video. And every now and then I've done something where I'll like have an animation I want to play with in the moment. But like, it's not that common. So okay, a very common thing I might do, we've got this animation, it's rendering all these. It would be nice for the camera to slowly pan throughout. Agreed. And so it's amazing how useful it is for 3D rendering is that if you're looking at it on a 2d screen, you need the illusion created by the rotation to keep the depth alive. Yeah. So here's what I might do. I have a little another keyboard shortcut that is not documented anywhere where I can save to my clipboard, basically a call that needs to be made to put the camera in the current position. So that's just grabbed where the camera angle is right now. That's helpful. And so if in my animation I take the camera frame, which is like frame. I haven't talked about this dot animate thing yet. But basically I say, I want you to do this thing. I don't want you to just do it to the object. I want you to animate that over time. And there's some little bit of magic that underlies what's going on there. But in this case, the thing I wanted to animate is reorienting itself to a certain position. So over the course of the animation, it should like slowly pan itself over. So it'll take wherever it is, wherever it thinks it is already and try and get to that. So I'm going to also it's nice if the runtime as an argument of the play method, then it becomes the runtime for every animation in that method. So this might not be enough movement, actually. I might want to like really have it spin around because it's happening over 30 seconds. So back to the beginning. Do all this. Is it panning? Oh, it's very slow. It looks like it is very smooth. It's not. Yeah, it's smooth, which not necessarily. I think I like that. I think I like it as a smooth thing. Agreed. It might look kind of a jerky style if it wasn't. Yeah. And so now it's like as we're going, we can see it from all the different angles. I think the color scheme is still a little jarring to me. So I think what I might do is make it go to teal or something that's nice and close to it. And then maybe we'll make this actually even more aggressive. I'm not your best color audience. My color vision deficiency, definitely. I don't know if my colors are the same. Anyway, yellow and blue I can see apart. Blue and teal. In this case, like either you want them to be starkly different so you see it or you want it to be aesthetically nice where maybe you're just using the shade of it rather than the hue to distinguish. So I mean, one thing we could try, it's going to look cleaner, but maybe be harder to discern. Let's say we go between two different shades of blue and I'm going to now let's have some fun and let's have there be like 10 points. And so they're just going to change by their epsilon in the third coordinate. Yeah, exactly. Doesn't really matter. We know actually. I mean, mathematical comment. The other amazing thing about this is that wherever you start, it goes into this sort of shape. That's kind of like the second surprising thing, isn't it? Yeah, yeah, yeah. The whole point is not just that it does something strange, but that there is an attractor. So often with differential equations, it might be attracted to a single point. It might blow up to infinity. It might be attracted to a cycle, but then this is what's called a strange attractor where all the points are attracted to a certain shape, but that shape isn't so simple as a cycle and it's got a fractal nature to it. I often feel like it's the sort of contradiction inherent in trying to describe chaos to someone because I want you to say, okay, this is when it's unpredictable. And yet at the same time it is predictable and there's this strange attractor. So it's the fact that both are happening. And this is... You know that it's going to be on this subset of R3. It's going to get really close to that subset. Where on that will it be? Well, we just had 10 starting conditions that were really close to each other. And if we remove the curves and just see the dots. They're all over the place. Oh, actually, let's do this. Let's have some fun. What if the curves... Sort of fade out of... Oh yeah, let's have them fade out of... Sorry, you had an idea that I... No, no, no, no, let's do that. Let's have the curves fade over time. I want to know what your idea was. How do I want to do that? I'm going to... I definitely made the part that follows with Ben way more complicated than it needed to be. We also got sidetracked chasing down a couple of different bugs. I think what I'll do is post the full relatively uncut version of that conversation maybe on Patreon. But just give you a much more succinct version of how we wrapped up here. Here I have essentially the same scene that I was doing with Ben. So we've got our axes setting up a 3D coordinate system. We've got our curves. I've got 10 of them. Here, when we animate, the curves are getting drawn. The dots are following. And Ben had just asked if we want to have the curves fade out over time. What I should have said is that you just type fade out curves, which is another animation type. It'll slowly change them to have zero opacity. In this case, that evolution time, if we make it the parameter... The runtime, rather. If we make that the parameter of the play argument here, then it becomes a runtime for everything on the inside. So now when we do that, it goes. And over the course of those 10 seconds, the curves should slowly fade. And indeed it looks like they do. And then we're left just with the dots, which is nice. It looks very nice. The other thing that we got into, and I just took way longer to say this than I properly should have. Because I was trying to remember what the names of the functions were and things like that. Again, I'll post this all in a more uncut version elsewhere. If we wanted a nice effect where there's this sort of tail following the dots that sort of fades out nicely. There's this thing I once wrote for some... You don't even remember what video, way in the past, called Tracing Tail. And so the way this will work is if you give it just a single little object of some kind. So let's give it that first dot. And then let's add the tail. Then, rather than fading out the curves in this case, actually what I'm going to do is just set those curves to be invisible. So set their opacity to be zero. So they'll be drawn that will determine where the dots go as they're having this kind of update function called on them. But we won't actually see them. What we will see is this one tail for one of the dots. I think. So the way that it looks... Great. We see that one little tail and it kind of fades out in the back. I like the effect. It sort of goes from full opacity to zero opacity, zero stroke width. You can change some of the parameters on it here. In this case, the amount of time that it follows it. So right here it's showing the last one second. And if we were to wait, it would sort of fade out because one more second has passed. So instead I could say, hey, I want you to follow it for a little bit more time. So let's make that time traced three seconds. Instead of just having one tail, we could have a group of them. So we'll create a group of these tails, not just for the zeroth dot, but for all of the dots. For dots and dots. And then I could maybe have it match the color of that dot so that we kind of see them all. So now, when we do this, we should see ten different tails all following for a little bit more time. Which I think should just give a nice, oh yeah, yeah, yeah, that gives a nice smooth little effect. And they all start to spread out. You can see that spread really cleanly. And here we can have more fun by basically having it evolve over more time. Instead of ten seconds, we could bring that up to thirty seconds. We could make them closer so this epsilon value, instead of being one one thousandth, we could make it one one hundred thousandth. So it should take longer for them to all diverge. So now if I go, we see all of those tails. In theory, these ten dots should actually stay closer for much longer. And it should take longer before we see that divergence in the chaos. And indeed, it takes a little while, but eventually they spread out. So, I think that's kind of a nice end effect. Like I said, I'll post the more uncut version, but now is a pretty good point to just jump ahead towards other topics. Well, goal achieved. You've got a Lorentz Attractor with multiple initial conditions varied very slightly, animating prettily with a glitchy trail. So before we finish the workflow, you've made a code that does a thing. And let's say you're happy with it. I know there's lots of polishing that you want to do. But you then bake it into an MP4 file. Oh yeah, yeah, yeah. So in this case, once I have the scene that I like, and so in this case maybe we'll clean it a little bit. I might want to render this out, so I've got a little keyboard shortcut. The way that you might call Manim usually is in the command line, if you've downloaded the GitHub and you've imported it all, you say Manim, and then you pass in a file, a Python file that contains the scene. And so in this case, I found the scene to put that. You say which scene do you want to render from that file. And in this case, I have a couple different parameters. If I say pre-run, it'll go through it all without animating to one, estimate how long it'll take, and also catch any errors rather than halfway through the animation. This Finder thing just means it's going to pop it up in Finder, the Mac OS file system. And then W means write it to file. And so if I run this, it pre-runs through, thinks about it, it knows how long it'll take now, and now it's rendering it to an MP4. And because I'll usually render it at 4K, sometimes the rendering will take a little longer. One of the reasons I wanted to make any kind of behind the scenes,