function here to describe the differential equation. It says for a given time and for a given state, which is going to have XYZ coordinates, just what's the derivative of that state. And you've got three parameters, which you've got Greek words for. And so that, you know, I guess if we go to the if we go to the Wikipedia page for Lorenz, this is a system that has some parameters on it that I guess we can kind of freely tune. There's some parameters that someone must have found makes for nice diagrams. And so let's just use them. Let's keep this page open. So if we want to render the equations onto our scene to do it, do it in that manner, maybe we can do it in a moment. So we've got that. I've just got a tiny little wrapper around the SciPy numerical integration solver for us because what I want to do is be able to say, hey, for a given initial condition, just give me all the points that are going to be the solution. So let me just check. And you kind of need to know what it's going to spit back at you. Yeah. It's giving you something called solution, which is going to have time values and X, Y, and Z values. So the way, yeah, this library is a little weird. It's kind of like it's treating Y as the output, but Y might be like a vector value, which is a little confusing, which is part of why I wanted a wrapper so that I'm just thinking in terms of states rather than like its language is involving like a Y. And I also wanted this matrix transposed for how I like it. Oh, gotcha. That's what that T is. Okay. Yeah. It's just all like, don't worry about the wrapper too much. Let's just actually see what it looks like. So let's say our initial condition is something like, let's just make it 0, 0, 0. Why not? And then we can take the solutions where I'm passing in a given function, which we want to be the Lorentz system and passing in that initial state, which is the initial state we just wrote down. How long do I want that to go? So let's see what, I don't know, 10 seconds of solution looks like. And this right here is just going to be a set of points basically. And so if I run this and I ask, you know, what are points? It gives a bunch of zeros. This is maybe predictable that 0 is going to be a bad initial condition. Initial condition, yes. Yeah. So let's make that like 10 or something like that. And so now if we look at the points. There's some interesting points rather than all zeros. Yeah. Okay. So in this case, I could render a curve where the, like I said, I call everything a mobject for a mathematical object. Many of them are vectorized mobjects, which just tells you how it's rendering as opposed to being a surface or like a point cloud. And these are things like curves that have some sort of stroke thickness fill and all that. So that's interpreting the points and then drawing lines between them essentially. Well, so to do that, I'm basically going to say, hey, set your points as corners as if it was a polygon. All of those points that were just created. And then let's see what that curve looks like. If I knew how to spell self. So if I do that, we don't see it, but actually it's up there. No, because the thing is I was just adding the points, but I wasn't using the coordinate system of these axes in any way. And so. Ah, so they're not necessarily going to plot them according to those axes. Right. So what I actually want to do is take the axes and there's a function called like coordinates to points, which is basically going from whatever the coordinate system of the axes are to the like manum coordinate system. And there's an abbreviation for that because it's used a lot called chords to points. And I'll just pass that in. And I think actually it thinks of it in terms of you passing a list of X list of Y list of Z's. So I'm going to do a little transposing and don't worry about it too much. But this should be in the actual coordinate system. Can I check what that star is doing in that penultimate line on the code? OK, so yeah, if you have let's say I have a tuple, this like one, two, three. Right. And then if I have I define a function that takes in like X, Y, Z and it returns let's say like X plus Y plus two times. We'll do a non trivial. If I call function on that tuple, it'll be like type error. Ah, because it wanted them separated. That's a different kind of error. It wants them separated. So I could do it like oh, pass in like the zeroth element. But Python has a little little syntactical snazziness where if you put an asterisk in front of an iterable thing, it'll unpack it. OK, this is I mean, this is the most useful thing I've learned all day. I mean, manum is pretty good. But thank you. And joking aside, that's helpful. If you don't know what that was, it's always mysterious to see things you don't understand what they're doing. So in this case, points is an array where I like to think of each each row is one of the points. But the syntax for this coordinates to points is going to take in lists of the X coordinates, Y coordinates. It's maybe a dumb design as I'm thinking about it right now. Like maybe the way it should play. It makes sense. The reason it makes sense is usually when you're calling this, you have axi.c2p. You're just passing an actual individual ones like, hey, I want to know what point does this correspond to in the manum coordinate system. And it's like, here's that point. So if I wanted to add a dot there, you know, this we could see where it shows up for. Why can't I type cell? Because you're on camera. Because I'm on camera. Yeah. And so it's putting it at that. And you say it's a dumb system. If it works, it's not a dumb system. Yeah. It can always be improved. Right. But it's working as a whole lot better than many systems we try and make. Great. So let's have some fun with this. We could see how it evolves rather than just adding the curve. We could show the creation of the curve, which is basically showing the system evolve. So that's going to take all those points, but just kind of run through them slowly. Yeah. Or make them appear slowly. Well, here's what it'll do. Right. It'll draw it. But that was very fast. So maybe I want the runtime to match the actual time of the dynamic system. So it should draw it over the course of 10 seconds. But here it's trying to be too smart. When it draws things by default, it does that smoothing function. I see. And that's actually changing the behavior. So actually we want the rate function in this case. Almost always it's nice for it to be smooth. This is one of those cases where the math that it's representing is relevant. It needs to be kept rather than masked. So instead, linearly, this is the actual evolution of it. Nice. And so we can style it too. Maybe we want to set the stroke to make it look blue, make it look a little bit thinner, something like that. We could actually give it a range if we wanted to have a kind of gradient between things. Which I don't know if that looks nice or not. But you can imagine. That's starting blue and ending up red. Yeah. Starting at zero stroke with ending up at 10 or starting at 10 ending up at zero. Knock yourself out. Yeah, those look pretty ugly to me. And also I think we'll want to use colors for a different reason now. Because the reason the system is interesting is because it's chaotic. If you have initial conditions that are really close to each other. But not quite the same. But not quite the same. They start evolving the same for a while, but then they stop. So I think here's the way that I want to illustrate this. We're going to create multiple curves. I'm going to have curves which I'm going to create a group. And I call it a vgroup just to say, hey, these are going to be vectorized objects. That makes the rendering a little faster if it knows that. If it doesn't know that, it'll render them, but it doesn't use a certain trick to make it faster. Then I'm going to go through a bunch of states, which I need to define now. So states I'm going to maybe make into... And these are your initial conditions. These are going to be the initial conditions. So let's just change that z coordinate by a little bit. So we'll take like an epsilon to be like 1, 1000. Maybe I'll make it more explicit for n in range. How many initial conditions do you want? Should we start with just two? Sure, sure. I mean, I know you're doing a whole list for it, and that's slightly redundant, but we can crank that up to lots. Yeah, this will be good. So that'll be our state. So these are not going to be dependent on the state 0, but whatever state is part of our for loop here. I'm going to take everything we just did and basically say... Put it in the loop. Okay, points were just created. Great. Okay, it says blue. I don't want them all to be blue. So let me make some colors, which at the moment, because there's just two right now, we're going to have to change this in a moment, but I'm going to make it blue and red. But like... You eventually will need some numerical way of changing it. Generalized, yeah. But this will make it kind of easy to see now. Good commenting, Graham. Oh, it's a rarity when I'm animating. Someone's watching now, eh? Yeah. I'm not the worst in the world, but there's a lot of room for improvement. So I'm just going to include that in the loop. So I'm zipping together the states and the colors. And so the curves are going to be colored differently. And now this showing creation, I want to actually happen... Oh, here we'll use our star again. I love list constructors and all that. So here's a little fanciness for what we're doing. So we've got this group of curves that actually... In this for loop, I'm going to need to add each one. So curves.add curve. So creates an empty group. This list adds new threads to it. In this case, there's just two. In a moment, we can make it 10 if we want. And then this is going to create basically a list. It's a generator, but it'll create a list of animations. Those animations are this show creation thing. And then the stars, so that as you pass it into the play argument, it's passing them as if they were multiple different animations. So there's a little bit baked into that. But essentially what we want is that we're going to have an evolution of two curves at once. And right now you only see the red one because the red one's being rendered on top of it. But now they've diverged. Now they've diverged. I want to see that divergence a little bit more clearly. We need to run it for longer. Okay, so first let's run it for longer. So let's actually name this. Let's call it, I don't know, evolution time. We could just call it time. And that will be an overused name again, isn't it? Let's make that 30. The other thing I want to do is have little dots indicating the end point. Oh yes, so you can eyeball it easily. Yeah, so the way I'm going to do that is I'm going to make a group that'll have a thing called a glow dot color for colors. And again, glow dot is a baked in function that you've got because you want often to have a point that moves and has a nice bit of coloring into it. And so this one's not a vectorized thing. So rather than it's just like its data is described by a point in space and like how much I want it to like ambiently glow. And it's got a little color. And I'm going to create an updater function for it where I'm going to update the dots. This is going to be a function that takes those dots in. And I'm just going to write this function kind of in place. I often like to do that where it's like everything relevant to this animation we're doing just sits in that commenting bit. I'm going to say for dot curve and zipping together the dots with the curves. I want each dot to move to the end point of the curve. So move to curve dot get end. So curve dot get end will tell you its last point. The dots going to move to that point. And this is something I want to happen on every iteration. So I'm going to say add as an updater this. This is a thing I want to be called on these dots at every iteration from here on forward. Python question? Yeah, yeah, yeah. The zip command is sort of stacking two lists sort of in parallel so that you can iterate through them in parallel. Yeah, yeah. So let's say we have list one looks like one, two, three. List two looks like, you know, a, b, c. Yeah. Oh, that's going to kill me. You couldn't leave it. So if you say for number letter in zip list one list two print number and letter. Then it pairs them up. Yeah, it pairs them up. So you can keep lists which are referring to similar things sort of implicitly because of their position. Yeah. I mean, that's what I thought, but it's nice to see that. And so there's a it's unsettling in my mind right now because we're zipping things together that might not have the same size. So we're going to want to do something that makes sure that colors. In fact, let's just do it now. Would it cope if you did or would it spit out an error? Well, so what it'll do, here's what will happen. Suppose that list one was actually range much longer. So list one looks like this. If we run that little bit we had above it just it goes until one of the lists runs out. So we would just it would cope, but you would be missing many of them. And actually quite hard to find that bug if you hadn't spotted it. Yeah, no, it is. It is. It's why it's unsettling unless you're like sort of fluent with Python. So I have a thing called color gradient that will basically go between two colors and you you tell it how many steps to how many steps exactly. And so the number of steps should be the length of the states in this case. So we should just feel like, OK, no matter what, the number of colors matches the length of the states. And now I feel more comfortable. I wonder how much it is insightful to watch someone doing a workflow and to note when discomfort kicks in. That's a really insightful thing to realize what matters from bitter experience, right? Isn't it? This isn't that bitter. It's maybe just like aesthetically. Experience tells you when to worry about something when not to worry about it. And it's just nice to see that that's how you know I should deal with that before I forget about it. So how do we want to do this? Oh, yeah. So we've got our dots. We've got the updater. That means if we add the dots to the scene, then as these evolve and their endpoint changes based on what's been drawn. It should track it around. It should. I'm going to put in a small line that anyone who knows Python is going to vomit at. And if you want, I can explain the line and why I would never do it in any sort of like serious code. But it is an annoying necessity. Let's see it first and then I'll ask you. We can edit if we need to. Must be a string or real number. What line is this coming up for? So when I set the points. Color and colors. The color gradient is producing. Oh, so the initial argument for glow dot is the center like where it is in space. So it was telling it you needed that parameter to be there could be a better certainly a better type error message that's that rather than this is kicking off to this is where people are like who know Python. The constructor of glow dot should definitely have had better error messaging. I'm not going to hold it against you. Yeah, there's the dot. And again, red on top of blue at first. This is