Hey, welcome to the definitive guide onagentic workflows for business. Now,agentic workflows have the potential tobring about what I think is one of thelargest wealth transfers in humanhistory. But very few people arecurrently talking about how topractically use them to improve theirfinancial means. That's what this videois going to show you how to do. Here'swhat you're going to learn. What anagentic workflow really is. How agenticworkflows function via loops. A fewcommon problems with agentic workflowsand how to fix them. How to actuallybuild these things. So, idees, settingup your workspace, creating your firstflow, the DO framework, directiveorchestration and execution, claudeskills, MCP and other frameworks, whateach one does, when to use which and howthey all fit together, how to test andvalidate agentic workflows, the bestsystem prompts for agentic workflows,which I will give you, how to make yourworkflows self annealing, aka healthemselves when they air out, how tomove out of the IDE and into the cloud.I'll teach you how to create web hooks,schedule triggers, and more. How to runmultiple agents simultaneously. I'llshow you a sub aents and advancedworkflow parallelization. And finally,how to troubleshoot agentic workflowswhen things break. If you don't know whoI am, I build two AI based serviceagencies to $160,000 a month in combinedrevenue. I've also consulted for acouple of billion-dollar businesses withAI. And I tell you this cuz I want tomake it clear. Well, you guys are ofcourse going to learn everything fromthe fundamentals all the way up to theadvanced concepts today. This course hasa business focus. My goal is to helpprepare as many people as possible forwhat I consider to be the next stage ofthe economy. So what you will learntoday is working right now. It isgenerating revenue right now and you canuse it to improve your own and otherpeople's businesses right now. Pleasebookmark this and use the chapterfeature to come back to it or wheneveryou need anytime. And I hope you guysare excited as I am to get into AgenticWorkflows. Let's get started. This is apractical course. The whole point of itis to build and then use AgenticWorkflows in real business environments.And that's because building is the mosteffective way to learn anything. Whenyou build with your hands and get themdirty, you're forced to deal withconcepts in a way that you guys neverwould have if you just sat back andpassively listened. That said, before weget into the building, and there will bea lot of building and a lot of demos inthis course, there are some foundationalthings about agents and workflows thatI'd highly recommend that you understandbecause if you don't understand them,you're going to commit many hours tothis course and you'll only really beable to digest or extract a fewpercentage points of it. So what I wantto do is I want to maximize the abilityand efficiency of your time by helpingyou cover those concepts now. And bydoing that, you'll be able to absorb therest of the course a lot faster and alot better. So what do I mean byconcepts? AI is currently in an overhangstate. Current AI capabilities are veryfar beyond what most people believe,expect, or know how to use. If you guysgraft this, what we have down here issort of like the general public'sperception of AI, okay? And theirability to use it. And what we haveabove it is sort of like the reality,okay? You guys are going to see a lot ofvery crappily drawn lines in thiscourse, so you might as well get used tothem now. So this gap between thereality of the situation and then whatpeople believe AI is capable of iscalled the overhang.The reason why this overhang exists andthe reason why people are only squeezingout a very small percentage of theactual value of AI, large languagemodels, agentic workflows and so on andso forth [snorts] is because right nowmost people are using them as glorifiedcopy and paste tools. They are basicallytrying to drink through the Pacific orAtlantic Ocean with a tiny straw. Youknow, they ask these galaxy brainintelligences. Pretty dumb questions tobegin with to be honest. They answer andthen all they do is they copy it fromone tab into another, which is obviouslya very low bandwidth, reallybottlenecked way of working. They arenot integrating AI into their businesslike I'm about to show you how to do inthis course. Instead, they're justdealing with it like a like an externalsort of third party thing.Now, obviously, people are figuring outthat AI is a lot more powerful than mostpeople give it credit to, and courseslike mine are helping them do so. But asthey figure it out, the arbitrage windowwill close. And in case you guys didn'tknow, arbitrage is your ability toessentially produce some sort ofbeneficial outcome, revenue or profit,based off of a disparity in knowledge.And so, if you know, you know, this andthe rest of the market knows this,obviously there's kind of a gap there,right? and the market is willing to payyou to be somebody that solves thatlittle tiny gap. Well, that window isclosing because people are learningabout how this technology works. Butright now, it's wide open and you canmake a ton of money with it. So, just asa demonstration to show you how powerfulthese models are, I'm going to have onein particular called Claude Opus 4.5 doa pretty straightforward task for me.This task is to compile a list of fivelocal meal preparation companies thatdeliver to around my area and then findtheir email addresses. I'm then going tosend each of them emails withspecifications from this email. I wantuh you know 3500 calories a day, 200grams of protein a day. I'm doing somebig bulk. Do this entirely autonomouslyrequiring no input from me. If youcannot find the emails of at least five,then keep on searching until you do.Most people don't realize that modelsare entirely capable of doing this sortof thing for you and essentially actingas you know an extension of yourself. Soit's starting off by searching for mealprep delivery companies downtownVancouver BC 2025. If I were doing thison my own, this is probably somethingthat I would do as well, right? likevery straightforward and logical. Youdon't need to know how the IDE that I'musing uh works. You don't need tounderstand the interface or everything.I'm going to cover all this later on inthe course. And as you can see, it'sfound me a bunch of meal preparationservices. There's Fresh Prep, Two Guyswith Knives, Crave Healthy, Fed, Freshin Your Fridge, K-Bop, and then WellFed.Now, it's finding email addresses ofeach of these. So, as you can see, it'sactually simultaneously running a bunchof searches on their websites to lookfor email addresses or contact methods.A few seconds later, it looks like itcould only find one email out of thefour or five searches that it ran. So,what is it doing instead? It's nowbroadening its search. It's going oncontact pages. It's looking foralternative solutions. Okay, it's nowaccumulated the email addresses and likea temporary database. And it's justgoing through and sending emails. Itdoes so through uh what's called an MCP,model contact protocol server that I'veset up. I'll show that to you later. Andboom. Now, it is done. So, we've sentfive emails. Down here, you can see itsaid, "I asked each company about custommeal plans, pricing for higher volumeorders, and their delivery schedule todowntown Vancouver." We also includedthe requirements. I went through and Iactually found the email that it sent.It was something like this. Hey, companyteam, I'm looking for a meal prepservice that delivers to downtownVancouver and that contains thefollowing requirements. Daily caloriesapproximately 3500. Daily proteinapproximately this much. Focus on wholefoods and healthy ingredients.Interested in learning more? Do you mindletting me know? you know, if you guysoffer custom meal plans, um, what yourpricing looks like and how your deliveryschedule works. Looking forward tohearing from you. Thank you very much.So, I mean, like, this is something Irealistically probably would have sentmyself. Um, is it in my exact tone ofvoice, honestly? Like, it's reallyclose. This is more or less everythingthat I would send. There's no AI isms.People on the other end of the linearen't going to know that I'm using AIto do this sort of thing. And it turneda process that realistically would havepreviously taken me maybe like 20minutes into something that took meliterally less than 15 seconds. I mean,I wrote the thing, I pressed enter, andthen I went. And what you'll see is withthe use of other bandwidth improvingtools like voice transcription and stufflike this, you can actually have agenticworkflows become more or less yourinterface for the internet. And I shouldnote that I didn't even use a definedagentic workflow for this. I literallyjust asked an agent to do something andit was super unstructured and it stilldid a great job. Imagine when we wrapthis in the framework. I also want tocover this idea of a river of value. Theway I see the global economy is as agiant river. Okay. Now, capital flows towhoever provides value. And essentiallywhat occurs is for many centuries thatvalue has come from human labor,primarily physical to start, althougheventually cognitive. And then the morevalue that people could produce, themore downstream little tributaries ofthis river we found. And so this mightbe some person that's producingtremendous value, these might be otherpeople and so on and so forth. The wholeidea of capital is that as solutionsarrive in the economy that are more andmore effective, [gasps] they producelarger diversions of this stream. Okay?And so let's say this person Z is usingagentic workflows. The idea is over thecourse of the next few years, he or sheis going to consume more and more andmore and more and more of that riveruntil essentially he's getting all ofit. Those who position themselves aspeople like Z in this case will capturemassive flows from the future economybecause agentic workflows aren'toptional. There's something that arecoming and being deployed right now. Thelast thing I want to talk about isautomation in the terms of a Genticworkflow. Now, a lot of people thatwatch my channel and are probably hereare familiar with the idea ofautomation. They're also familiar withthe idea of roles and they've heard alot of things about how AI agents arecoming and their whole fleets of teamsthat are being replaced and so on and soforth. And this is kind of inaccurate.Rather than thinking about agenticworkflows, which is what we're going tocover in this course, as being able toautomate 100% of one role, I want you tothink about it a little differently. Iwant you to think about agenticworkflows as being capable of automating90% of 10,000 roles. So as opposed toautomating 100% okay of one, we'reautomating say 90% of 10,000 people inthe organization. Now if you automate100% of one role, that's actually prettyvaluable. Don't get me wrong. If I couldautomate a software developer completelyend to end, if I could automate amarketer end to end, obviously thatproduces some value in my organization.But agentic workflows, like a lot oftechnology, have gaps. And so, um, themain issue is human beings tend toalways have a little bit more contextthan these things do, at least rightnow. And so, even the ability toautomate 90% of 10,000, despite the factthat it's not 100, is still tremendouslyvaluable. If you just do the math,automating 100% of one person's role isequivalent to basically providing oneunit of economic value. Whereas, if youautomate 90% of 10,000 people's, you'reproviding 9,000 units of economic value.As long as you structure your companiesin a way to accommodate these things,these things are very powerful. Now, Icall this horizontal leverage and it'svery, very strong. Another way I wantyou to think about this is like theindustrial revolution. Back in the goodold days, well, I don't know if theywere really good, but certainly back inthe day, you had people likeseamstresses who would, you know, knitvarious garments and stitch variousthings together. And maybe one of theseseamstresses could produce, you know, 10pairs of a specific type of clothing perday. Well, after the industrialrevolution, obviously we didn't do a lotof this stuff by hand anymore. We hadmachines that did this stuff instead. Somaybe a loom. Before a single seamstresscould produce maybe 10 garments a day.After one of these machines could maybeprepare 10,000 garments in a day. Thatsaid, it the machine didn't fullyreplace that seamstress because thatseamstress just transitioned. Instead ofbeing somebody that worked with theirhands on building the garment directly,they instead became somebody that wassupervising whole fleets of machinesthat did it. Now imagine if in thisanalogy, not only can we build and use aloom, we are capable of rebuilding thatloom in any configuration in seconds. Wedon't have to, you know, smelt the metaland then hammer it and then construct itin a way and screw gears and all thatstuff in order to build a machine. Wecould literally just use naturallanguage. Obviously, that would be a lotmore powerful, right? Well, that reallyis the idea of an agentic workflow. Itis something that provides incrediblehorizontal leverage and we canreconfigure it in seconds to do more orless whatever we want. And it's not anexaggeration to tell you that this is aphase change essentially in a company'sability to automate things. So if youguys are familiar with automationplatforms, in this case this is N8N,you'll know that most of the time theway that we are currently buildingautomated systems is through drag anddrop nodes or modules. And so on theleft hand side here, I have a simplesystem set up. I'm not going to gothrough everything because it'spointless. The point is not to learn aspecific automation platform. The pointis to learn how to automate platforms ingeneral, but I have a specificautomation here that just responds tosome emails coming in for a cold emailcampaign. And as you see here, we havethese nodes and they do various things.Some of them do HTTP requests. Some ofthem do some data processing and andformatting. Some of them call a Googlesheet. We have some AI functionality andso on and so forth. They're allconnected with these lines, which isbasically the the flow of logic througha system. And this is hunky dory. Itworks really well. Well, the new versionof that workflow on the left, whichobviously requires a lot of time,energy, and understanding in order to beable to to parse and then change is whatwe have on the right. Instead of dealingwith nodes and specific softwareplatforms, we use the universaltranslation, which is natural language,and then just write it out in bulletpoints. So on the right hand side I havethe exact same workflow except I have itset for agentic uh systems and all it isis a list of bullet points. Hey whensomebody replies to one of your coldoutreach campaigns instantly should senda web hook. The system should look upthe campaign in a Google sheet to findtalking points and example replies. Itshould then research the person whoreplied. It should then generate a shortfriendly reply. If they said somethingnegative like unsubscribe or remove me,we should skip them. If there's noknowledge base, we should skip them.Otherwise, we should send the replyautomatically. I want you guys to seethat on the left hand side, we had tospend months, maybe years, becomingskilled enough to use a platform to beable to build systems that did this. Andon the right, a toddler who has a arough idea in mind of what he or shewants to do can write it out in naturallanguage. And not only can everybodyelse on a team interpret that, we canalso change that at any point. If Iwanted to add an additional step to myworkflow, all I do is I click click onthis, press enter, and then just writeit out. and the agentic workflow builderand then eventually doer using aframework I'm going to run you guysthrough later on in this course will doit and it'll do it extraordinarilyremarkably well. So that's a veryfundamental change in how these thingswork and hopefully it's clear toeverybody here that workflows are nolonger drag and drop sort of builds inthe concept that we see on the left handside. They're very much so just likebasic logic. So why is all of this stuffpossible right now? It certainly wasn'tjust a little while ago. Well, there arethree main reasons. intelligence, tools,and cost. On the intelligence side,model intelligence just crossed athreshold and became very, very good,seemingly overnight, but really we'vebeen working up to it for quite a while.Frontier models like Anthropics Claude,OpenAs, Chat, GBT, Google's Gemini, andthen a bunch of other ones have gottenreally smart. They score around 80% on abenchmark called software engineeringbench verified. And this measures realsoftware engineering ability. This isnot a crappy cherrypicked demo. Itwasn't included in like the trainingdata or anything like that. These arenovel problems that are being solved innovel ways through models. Andessentially, they are genuineprofessional grade work that are betterthan most software engineers. Now, Iwould have considered myself a softwareengineer a couple of years ago. I'd saymy skills have definitely uhdeteriorated a fair amount since becauseI've been focusing more on no code toolsand and making money and stuff likethat. But this stuff is so far beyond myown abilities as sort of like amid-level dev u that it's not evenfunny. Most people that learn about thisand they're going to be learning aboutit pretty soon will think that AI wentfrom, you know, intern level to somesort of senior employee overnight. Butthis is just how knowledge works.Basically, anytime that you have aprocess and that process slowly getsbetter and better and better over time,most people don't see until we hit acertain threshold and then it almostlooks like it went vertical. In reality,uh it's almost like the way that boilingwater works, right? The temperature ofwater goes up and up and up and up andup and then eventually it boils and thenit fundamentally changes state. Youknow, it goes from over here where it'slike a liquid to over here where it's aa gas. And although we're supplying moreand more energy to this thing, we're notreally seeing it change until all of asudden, boom, it's producing bubbles andgetting all over the place. So, I seemodel intelligence a very, very similarway. So, a lot of people talk aboutbenchmarks. Very few people actuallyshow what the questions inside of abenchmark realistically ask. I thinkbenchmarks are for the most part prettyartificial. A much better test of howgood a model is is just how good youfeel while using it. But it is importantthat at least we understand howbenchmarks work in order for us toreally put in context the capabilitiesof agents. So here's uh one fromAstropi. It's a misleading exceptionmessage. And basically, these models areso good at coding. Like, like, I mean, Itried to look through and understandwhat any of these actual questions meantand how to fix them. I'd probably bestaring at each of these for like a daybefore anything makes sense. Um, letalone before I get to the point where Icould realistically solve it. Thesemodels can do this sort of thing in inseconds. So, issue problem statement.Hey, removing a required column from atime series raises a misleading errormessage. The error claims the timecolumn is missing even when it'spresent. Instead, the error should listall missing required columns. Then itgives you a snippet of code with theactual class time series. Right? Solooking at that, no idea what the hellthat does. The bug, if flux is missing,error still complains about time. Errormessage is factually incorrect. You'refix detect which required columns aremissing. Report them explicitly. So youactually have to go through and you haveto do this with the code. Okay, here'sone from sort of like a Panda stylequestion. Load CSV silently coercesmixtype columns instead of failingquickly which leads to incorrectdownstream computations and then it likeprovides a list. So, we now have modelsthat are basically capable of looking ata thousand of these and solving morethan 800 of them perfectly. I mean, ifyou gave me a thousand of these, notonly would I take like a year, I wouldprobably get at least, you know, 50% ofthese things wrong. And I'm somebodythat has some exposure to this sort ofstuff. Imagine the average person. Andso what I mean to say is that we areessentially empowering every human beingon earth or at least we have thepotential to empower if we were toactually distribute this technology andif everybody were to know it to thelevel that you will know it by the endof this course with the powers of like amid-level to even senior developer inmany cases. Another important point ishow fast these models can operate. Imean this is me asking chat GPT 5.2thinking to just reason a little bitabout the meaning of life. Check out thestream of output that it's providing.But you can go way faster than that.This is an example of a diffusion LLMthat it basically immediately processesand writes I don't know how many hundredwords, but extraordinarily quickly. Yousee that we just click generate and thenimmediately after, you know, probably atleast 300 words for instantiated. Thesemodels can run these reasoning loopsextremely quickly behind closed doors.In addition, providers like uh Anthropicand OpenAI and Gemini and stuff have allthe compute necessary to run thesethings like 10, 50, 100 times fasterthan you are yourself. So just imaginewhat's going to happen when that levelof technology drips down to the rest ofthe economy. Like to be clear, thesemodels, the ones that I'm using to buildagentic workflows, are already extremelypowerful and have automated the vastmajority of my day-to-day work. They canautomate the vast majority of yourday-to-day work as well or any of thecompanies that you work with. Butimagine the models in 3 months. Imaginethe models in a year from now. That'swhy learning how to build these sorts ofworkflows today is probably one of thehighest ROI skills that you can engagein. The second thing is tool integrationis now standardized. So there's someprotocols out there like model contextprotocol which standardizes how AIconnects to external tools, databases,resources, and stuff like that. I'mgoing to be showing you guys how to usemodel context protocol in prettyadvanced ways that I don't think a lotof other people have covered in thiscourse. I'm also going to be talkingabout some of the downsides of modelcontext protocol like how initially ittotally blew but now it's uh actuallypretty good and well supported so it'sit's worth us diving in. In addition toyou know those tools through MCP therealso some frameworks that have recentlycome out. One is directive orchestrationexecution. This is the framework I'mgoing to be using to build and then useour agentic workflows throughout thecourse. There are also platform specificframeworks like cloud skills for thecloud family of models. these formalizetool calling and you know in case youhave no idea what I'm talking about hereLLM are really flexible okay which is agreat thing conceptually it's great ifyou want to write poems and write docreative writing and help you respond toemails and stuff like that but a lot ofbusiness functions don't depend onflexibility what they depend on is theopposite they depend on reliability soin business we need to standardize andtools are basically just standardizedlittle things that we can use in orderto accomplish business tasks I likethinking of it like a caveman that youknow, is hunting saber-tooth tigers orsomething. If you're a caveman andyou're hunting saber-tooth tigers, andevery time you go to a saber-toothtiger, you're completely empty-handed,what are you going to do? The firstthing you're going to do is you're goingto be like, "Holy crap, is that asaber-tooth tiger?" You're going toscrge around on the ground to look forrocks and pointy stabby things and, youknow, sticks and anything that can buyyou some distance and then maybe someeffectiveness. Contrast that with ifbefore you had a little bit of foresightand you said, "Hm, I should probablybuild something that's kind of pointyand sharp." Huh? So, you you work allday and night and you put together aspear. Well, every time you encounterthat problem of the saber-tooth tiger,okay, what are you going to do? You'rejust going to pick up your spear anddeal with it. Just my really crappydrawn spear. That's sort of the samething that LLMs use tools for. Theyencounter problems. When they encounterthem a few times, they then developtools that solve them or usepre-existing ones through MCP. And thenin doing so, we can standardize thesolving of business problems prettyeasily.Okay. The last thing is just costeconomics and they finally make sense.When Claude Opus 4.5 dropped, it wentfrom a cost of about $15 or $75depending on input or output per 1million tokens to five or $25 dependingon input or output for 1 million tokens.That's a 3x reduction. And newer modelsare even cheaper than that. The cost ofintelligence per like effectiveness hasplunged something like 40% in the lastyear. If I were to graph this, it wouldactually look like this. Now, I've beenusing models since GPT3, way back in2020 when it was um initially releasedwith a very small, you know, selectgroup of people that could access it andso on and so forth. GPT3, which is, Imean, orders upon orders upon orders ofmagnitude dumber than this, costs morethan this technology that we are dealingwith right now. It is insane how quicklythe price of knowledge work hasplummeted. It's already gone down 40times in just the last year. I imagineit'll probably go down another 40 timesover the course of the next year, maybeeven more. What that means is we canactually send large volumes of tokens tothese things to replace the work of likedeterministic um old school automationslike the NAN flow that I showed youwithout it running a business raggedinto the ground. There are also tons ofprice wars that are occurring betweenmajor providers and there's a lot oflike geopolitical incentives between,you know, places in the east and thenplaces in the west um to basically makethese things as accessible and easily touse as possible. So to make a long storyshort, this is new. Very few peopleunderstand the capabilities right now.So there are many billions of dollarsthat will shift as the market learns andadapts. It is much better to be an earlymover than somebody that is affected bythis technology uh without their consentor knowingness. What I mean is would yourather learn about this stuff now orwould you rather learn about it in 2years when your boss or I don't knowsome some client base of yours turns toyou and says hey we no longer need youbecause we have aic workflows to do it.I would much rather be the person thathelps them build those agentic workflowsthan I'd be the person that's nowsitting on my ass because I don't knowanything about them. Hopefully, you aretoo. Okay, so now that that bigpreamble's out of the way, let's learnabout chat bots, agents, agenticworkflows, uh, knowledge tools, and thenactually get our hands dirty with somedemos. I like thinking about knowledgetools as evolving over the course of thelast 30, 40 or 50 years. I always thinkabout it sort of like the step ladder onthe right where you have three rungs. Atthe bottom you have documents. In themiddle you have chats and at the top youhave agents. Over the course of the last30 40 50 years we basically transitionfrom knowledge in the form of docs toknowledge in the form of chats over thelast 5 years to knowledge and action inthe form of agents. And I'm going to runyou through what each of these look likenow before actually using them in a realworkflow. So documents are staticknowledge. Hopefully they're prettystraightforward. It's oneway informationflow. All you do is you read thedocument, but it's not like the documentcan respond to you. We currently usedocuments everywhere in school and inbusiness. We use them in legalagreements. We use them in trainingmaterials. Once you write a document, itobviously stays fixed. That's a feature,not a bug, because it's great forpermanence. Like if you're writingcontracts or standard operatingprocedures that are immutable, aka itshould not change. You don't want yourcontract or your standard operatingprocedure rewriting itself unless youwant it to, right? In most cases, youdon't. So, u that's great. That'sactually a feature, not a bug. Chatbots, on the other hand, are not static.They are dynamic. Chat bots weredeveloped realistically way back in the1970s, but we were only starting to usethem for real knowledge purposes andmaybe like the early 2020s. And theyperform two-way interaction. You readthe output, but you can also askquestions back. So, here's a crappy passto GPT40 where I just said, "Hey, what'sup? Hey, Nick. All good on my end. Quickcheck-in. Zero fluff. I'm ready to helpif you want to chat. If you got adecision to make, whatever. What's onyour mind?" This is now two-wayknowledge interaction. the dreadedmdash. Um, this allows you to do thingslike clarify confusing points. You canask for research. You can dig deeperinto topics. You can also modify theknowledge. So, you could upload, youknow, a PDF or you could make somestatement and then the chatbot now hassome additional context. Uh, I justthink of it like really smart colleagueswho read everything you give them, butthen they're also confined to a chair.You know, they can't move and they can'tdo anything with it. So, essentially allyou can do is is talk. This is how mostpeople treat models today as chat bots.They're dynamic knowledge, but they'restill subject to this little window.They can only be communicated with andcopied and pasted through your chatgbtor through your cloud output. Now,contrast that with agents, which Iconsider to be dynamic action. To make along story short, this is two-wayinteraction, just like chat bots, exceptthis time it acts. On the right handside here, you can see I have a flowthat says run the thumbnail generator ona link. So, it's not just asking it aquestion about the thumbnail generator,and I'm actually having it do something.And this is a real agentic workflow thatI developed to basically build YouTubethumbnails like what you guys saw on mychannel. What we see here is afundamentally different interface. Onthe left hand side, we have some ofthese nodes. Green ones here are actionsthat are being taken. These gray littlesections over here are thinking nodes,which are where the model reasons umextemporaneously, basically temporarily,and then discards these reasoningtokens. You can see that it's actuallycalling a script. You don't need to knowPython in order to like have the modeldo really cool things for you, butthat's what's happening right here. Andthen down over here we have a bashoutput where it's actually ran. We havean output that we can then use and so onand so forth. So you're given visibilityinto the reasoning. You're also givenvisibility into the um planning toolmemory reasoning and then observationloop. And I'm going to cover exactlywhat that looks like in a moment. Youalso have autonomy, long executiontimes. Agents can routinely run for 5 or10 minutes. Now yesterday night Iactually had an agent run for over 5hours uninterrupted to build me a reallycool system. As of today I think ofmodels like a mid-tier developer.They're 100K a year or so in terms oftheir like capability. But if you thinkabout it, I'm spending 20 bucks a monthfor this, which is 240 bucks a year,which is over 400 times cheaper. And notonly is it cheaper, this thing works 24hours a day, as I mentioned, or it canwork 24 hours a day. You can do a lot ofreally cool things with models likethis. So now is the time to jump on it.A point to understand is that an agentis not a chatbot, despite the fact thatthey look really similar, right? Now,the way I see chat bots is like a chatis just an interface, right? It's justsome specific thing with messages thatgo back and forth and then a littlewindow down here where you can enter inyour own information. The chat is justlike the app. The agent is what livesinside of the app. If you guys arefamiliar with crustaceians or crabs orum I don't know, like cute little thingsthat crawl around on the ocean subfloor.They often will have fine shells andthen um discard them when they no longerfit their purpose. Right? So, like acrustation that uses the shell of anolder animal, an agent is just currentlyusing the interface of an older type ofknowledge tool, the chatbot. And I'msure over the course of the next fewyears, it's going to discard this andwe're going to have new interfaces thatare even better. Okay, so let me showyou guys just the difference betweenchat bots and then a really low-levelagentic workflow that I put togetherthat functions through an agent. Um,down over here is a chat GPT desktopapp. This is really simple and easy. Youcan download it on chatbt's website.Super straightforward. I'm just going tosay um hey, how can I scrape, you know,leads from LinkedIn Sales Navigator. So,when you're working with models likethis, the input and output is prettybounded, right? All you can really do isyou could just see what this model tellsus. Hey, you know, here's the directhigh IQ zero fluff rundown. Use this,scrape this,use this. This is cool, right? I mean,it's nice that we're getting informationon how to do this. And you know a fewyears ago this would have beenrevolutionary. Rather than just have aconversation with the model and ask ithow to do things which is knowledge. Ican actually force a model to actionusing agentic workflows. So in this caseI'm saying scrape me 200 HVAC owners inthe US. I want decision makers. It thenchecks to see if there are lead scrapingdirectives and execution scripts. Thisis just part of the framework that helpsconstrain the model's output which I'verun you guys through a little bit morelater. It's then going through andactually pulling a script together to dothis thing for me. It then comes up withthis idea of a test scrape, 25 leads.It's then going to verify some industrymatch, run the full scrape, upload toGoogle sheet, and then even go throughand enrich it for me. In this case, themodel is performing a search. It's thencomparing the results of the search withwhat it is that it thinks that I want.It's determining that there's a very lowmatch rate. And so, it's now adjustingits filters on the fly completely on itsown to find leads with zero input. AllI'm doing here is texting a friend ofmine on my phone.It's then verified, past threshold. Nowit's running a full scrape. It then wentand it actually got us a Google sheetwith all that information. I mean, it'spretty cool in so far that it's totallyautonomous. It probably would have takenme a fair amount of time to come up withthe filters and so on and so forthmyself. This thing just did it entirelyon its own. If you guys check the bottomright, we actually ended up gettingalmost 200 emails directly from this. Wealso got a bunch of phone numbers and abunch of other really personalinformation. So, what exactly is goingon? There are five steps that an agentwill follow every single time you sendor receive a message. The first isplanning. The next is tools. The thirdis memory. The fourth is reflection. Andthe fifth is orchestration. I think Icalled it observation before. My bad onthat. But orchestration. I use a simplefiveletter acronym for this. Just ptmro. Helps me remember it. Hopefullyit'll help you remember it as well. Nowthese five components are as follows.Planning is where you break downobjectives into executable steps. Toolsare the actions that an agent actuallytakes in the world. If you guysremember, it was calling various thingsto do what it needed to do. They thenstored things into memory. So this ishow agents retain and recall informationacross tasks. There different forms ofmemory. There's short-term, midterm,long-term, and there's different waysthat that works within an agent thesedays. I'm I'm going to cover each ofthem. Uh reflection is where the agentevaluates and corrects its own work. So,as you saw there, we had an issue withone of the calls and it went through andit fixed the filter. And then finally,orchestration, which is where youcoordinate multiple agents or complexworkflows. We're going to talk about howto do that um later on in the program,too. Obviously, there's planning, andthat's mostly goal decomposition. So,it's where a highle objective getsbroken into subtasks. Um, for instance,if your highle task is to eat at WhiteCastle, you know, it's not just eat atWhite Castle, right? That's not enoughto go and actually do the thing. Whatyou want to do is you want to break thatdown into various tasks. Like maybe stepone is we have to um, I don't know, getin the car, right? Step two is, andmaybe you do this while you're in thecar, you do this before, you got toresearch the um, GPS location. You know,the third is you have to drive all theway over there.And then the fourth is you actually haveto order. And the fifth is you have tomake a movie about it. Just kidding. Butum the point that I'm making is you knowyou take this high level task and youactually break it down. And that isoccurring every single time within anagent. You don't always see it becauseit's typically buried within reasoningand most people don't expose reasoning.But this form of highle goaldecomposition occurs all the time. Andit's important that it does it rightbecause if it screws up at the planningstages, probability of it being able tomove and do the rest of the task is verylow because it's making a foundationalmisassion. Now, an agent will identifydependencies within steps. It'll thensequence them logically, like I justgave you, five steps. Well, the agentwill actually reverse those steps asnecessary. And then good planning alsomeans revising the plan when thingschange because there's obviously only somuch information that we have ahead oftime. There are limitations to this andClaude, GPT, Gemini, these have prettyimperfect planning capabilities. So, aspart of the building of the workflowsthat I'm going to show you later, Iactually recommend doing a fair amountof the planning yourself. The reason whyis because it's sort of um like ananalogy where if I'm on I don't knowlet's say the east coast of the UnitedStates and I want to go somewhere on thewest coast of Africa or something likethat. Okay, and I'm this ship over hereand my goal is I want to make it to thisport right over here. If I screw up atthe very beginning, okay, even by a fewpercentage points, let's say, okay, andI give myself a range of possibleoutcomes here, this range, even if it'slike a 1% problem with the planning or1% error or something like that, theseranges have massive downstream impactsover the course of the entirety of thetask. Like, if I'm really really bad, Icould end up in the middle of freakingnowhere. Or if I'm really, really,really bad on this end, I could end up,you know, hundreds of kilometers, maybethousands of kilometers away from whereI wanted to go. So what planning reallyis if you think about it is effectiveplanning just reduces those error bars.It just allows us to go a lot tighterand a lot narrower. So the probabilityof us actually achieving uh the thing wewant aka going to where we want to go isa lot higher. If there was one place foryou to exert your human intellect, it'sat the planning stage. And I'll coversome practical ways to do that later. Umobviously there's DO which helps byproviding structured directives. I'mgoing to show you guys how you can justdump your company SOPs into a model toguide its planning. If you guys don'thave company SOPs, I'm going to show youhow to reproduce them really simply andeasily. Next are tools. Now, these turnLLMs into systems that are capable ofreal world action. Um, I think I coveredthe caveman analogy, ancient peoplebuilding a spear or something like that,but you can also think of it as like anancient person building a house. It'slike they will build the house the firsttime and the house will be pretty cool,you know, might um have most the thingsthat they want. I don't know, some sortof um straw roof or whatever. And thenwhat's really cool is agents can then goback to the tools and then make thembetter. So maybe, you know, you want tobuild a window or something like that.So the first iteration of the housedoesn't have a window. Second one has awindow. The third one has like a door.The fourth one has like a cool barbedwire security system and so on and soforth. But just to break it down, tooluse is where agents interact withsystems and services. In our case,because we are dealing mostly withdigital services, that means things likecalling APIs. Okay, that's a big chunkof tool use to be honest. Then executingcode. You don't need to know any of thecode. It does the coding for you, but itis still executing the code. It alsonowadays includes a lot of databasestuff because you don't want to storeall the information directly in the uhcontext of the model. Then it also meansthings like browsing the web. So if yourcomputer was the entire world, right, inyour case, the tool that you personallyuse to interact with your computer, ifyou think about it, is use your mouseand use the keyboard. And some peopleare now using voice transcription toolslike myself. So that is our input methodto our world of the computer, right?Well, it's the same thing with agents.Tools are their input methods to reallife. They need tools in order to breakout of that little chatbot, okay, andactually influence things that matter.So the entirety of the intelligence ofmodels in the do directive orchestrationexecution framework in cloud skills in abunch of these different ways ofthinking about agentic workflows, theentire point of the intelligence is justto help it use and then build tools. Anda good analogy is tools are like theagents hands. The LLM is the brain. Ifyou're a brain and you're in a vat or ina jar somewhere, obviously your abilityto influence the real world is prettylimited, right? But you give a brainsome wires and neurons and some hands orwhatever and now it can actually startdoing things. Unfortunately, right nowtool quality varies a ton. There is alot of variance in like really good andreally crappy tools. And just a fewmonths ago is actually way larger.There's way more variance, but we'regetting better. And I imagine futuretool systems are going to be mostlypretty solid. There's going to be a lotless uh uh range between like a reallygood tool and a really bad tool.Essentially, um, this is for a varietyof reasons. MCP came out prettyrecently, and there are also a lot ofpeople trying to capitalize short-termon MCP, so they're building a lot ofreally crappy tools. I'll show you guyshow to avoid that, and also how toselect like really high quality toolsthat matter, as well as how to buildyour own that are way better. The way Isee bad tools is it's like if you givesomebody a really crappy hammer and thenyou expect them to build you like areally nice uh cupboard or cabinet orsomething, probability is low, right? Ifyou want to build something really cool,you need to have cool tools. If you wantto do something really cool, youobviously need to make sure those toolsare as high quality as humanly possible.So, here's one of the key insights ofAgentic Workflows and one of the reasonswhy I think a lot of people don'tunderstand how the stuff works. When youstandardize tools, okay, and you turnthem from vague ideas into actualconcrete functions. You let anybody usethem, regardless of the type of modelthat you're using, whether it's Claudeor whether it's chat GBT or whether it'sGemini. All of these models are smartenough to know how to use the tool. Youalso ensure consistent inputs andoutputs, which is really, reallyimportant for business. And the coolthing is you don't actually need to waitfor other people to build them anymore.All of these models are hyper optimizedfor programming. So, we're just going tolet the model build its own tools. LLMsare very probabilistic, right? Theirdecision-m process is pretty opaque tous. I heard a great quote the other day,uh, might have been from Dario Amod,might have been from somebody else, butit was that AI models are grown. They'renot built. And I think about that prettyoften. AI models are just intelligencesthat we are slowly figuring out how uhthey work under the hood. We don'tactually know. We don't have an anestablished consistent decision-makingprocess that takes us from one towherever we want to go. Businessrequires that you need interpretability.You need the ability to audit things andso on and so forth. Okay? So rather thanhave this big probabilistic galaxy brainwhich makes decisions in routes in waysthat we have no idea how, okay, we justgive it very very simple tools. And inthat way, even if there's somedeviation, maybe it gets all kind of uhloopy over here, we know that it calleda tool. And because it called a tool, wecan obviously interpret that um a lot alot easier, right? We have a sequence ofsteps like 1 2 3 4 5 6. We go throughthe process. It's just way morestraightforward. So, we just let anagent, which is optimized for coding,make its own tools. Then the agent willcall the tools and then interact withlife for us. I want to show you guys howeasy it is to build your own tools. Sohere I have a simple query. Hey, howwould you build a workflow that takes avideo, cuts out the silences in saidvideo, and stitches it all back togetherto deliver me the results. The cutshould look natural like most YouTubejunk cuts. Basically just try and stitchthe empty space together. You know, thisis a pretty complicated flow if youthink about it. There are a lot ofdifferent ways you could build somethinglike this and none of them are basicallyeasy. So, what this is going to do isit's going to look for a couple ofsimple and easy ways to do this and thenpresent them to me because I went downhere and I selected plan mode, which isone of the different modes that you canuse in um at least the Claude series ofmodels. Keep in mind depending on themodels that you're using may be a littlebit different. So now once I have thisplan in front of me, I'm then going tobe able to decide on how to do theworkflow and then I could act as more orless a highle director letting thisthing know whether or not I want to dosomething. Okay, next up it's asking meare we doing this on short clips, longclips, any preference on the defaultsand so on and so forth. I say shortclips defaults sound fine. MP4 is great.Okay, I then have the plan in front ofme and if I wanted to build this, all Iwould need to do is click yes and autoaccept. And I think I will. That seemspretty straightforward. So, let's giveit a try. While this is working, I'mjust going to see if I could find anexample of a video that I could feedinto this. Um, I've done this a coupleof times previously as you guys couldsee. So, let me just find some reallysimple video that's only a few secondsthat we can test this on. Okay. And Ifound an example here. It's just a shortone minute video clip of me doing atypical intro.Now that this thing is building, I'mjust going to move this to bypasspermissions mode. That'll just allow itto operate autonomously without me. Andonce it's there, it's actually createdit. That's great. As you guys can see,that only took us maybe like 30 secondsor so. From here, I actually want totest this. Let's test usingtest_clipip.mpp4.Now, I'm not actually expecting this towork the first time around because mostworkflows don't actually work the firsttime around. It's all a process ofprogressive iteration. Essentially, ifthe workflow doesn't work, the errormessage is fed back into the agent andthen the agent will progressively buildthe agentic workflow using the u theerror messages to sort of guide it inthe right direction.In situations like this, I honestly justalt tab and then do something else.Okay. And it actually looks like it didrun through the entire test manually andwas perfectly fine. That's crazy. WhatI'm going to do now is I'm just going towatch the test, see how it is, and thenwe'll just continue to go back and fortha few times until I have what I want.Oh, by the way, I don't even need tofind this file. I could actually justsay open it. Okay, so I'm noticing thatthe cuts are kind of abrupt. They're alittle bit too fast for me. Um, what Imean by that is like instead of cuttingat the point that I wanted it to cut,it's just cutting like a few secondsbefore. Multiple different ways aroundthis. I could use a different approachto detect the cut points. I could haveit manually move things over. I mean, ifyou think about it, like I could dowhatever the heck I want here. Uh, thisthing's operating at the speed ofthought. So, I'm just going to give itsome very high level instructions here,and we'll see what it thinks. It'sgiving me a bunch of different optionshere. One of them is voice activitydetection. I like this. Let's do thisone. Okay, it's now testing with thisnew approach.All right, let's take a look at roundtwo.Okay, so it worked perfectly on the umone minute clip. So now I'm just goingto run it on test three minutes.Okay, and it's just finished and thenopened the next clip. Let's just see howthat does. There is a cut point righthere, I think. Let's see if that's good.Cool. Nice. Looks like it did that cut.That's cool. How about another one? HI think it was right here.Nice. It's solid.Last one right here.Cool. So, yeah, this one workedbasically perfectly. Um the agenticworkflow is for the most part nowcomplete. So, you guys could see it tookone back and forth. I just in a veryhigh level um realistic way gave it alist of what I wanted. I didn't reallyknow what I wanted to be honest, justlike I think most people that haveprobably done any sort of like softwareengineering work know clients usuallyhave no clue how to scope a project. Soyou can sort of only take them at facevalue there. I went back and forth alittle bit. Um you know I was like okaythis didn't work too well. Is there anyother thing that we could do? It gave mesome other thing. So I tried the otherthing. Hopefully you guys could see thatthis sort of loop is verystraightforward and realistically onlytakes a few moments of your time. Themost important part I think of my entireday is now just providing some sort ofhighlevel nudge in one direction oranother to a agents like this whendesigning my agenda workflows. Um, youknow, like if you just remove me fromthe loop completely, the resulting agentworkflow is probably going to suck, atleast for now. But, uh, I'm just here tosteer the ship, right? It's almost likeas if I don't know, it's like an oldschool Viking boat where people have tolike manually row, right? So, I'm justthe person at the very front of the shipdoing a little bit of steering. Theagents are the minions doing my rowing.At this point, I'm briefly going tocover memory here. It's how agentsmaintain context. This isn't superimportant to know for building, but it'simportant to know if you want tounderstand how these things work underthe hood. So, short-term working memoryare basically reasoning tokens that arerelevant to the current task. They'restored temporarily. If you guys haveever seen like a little thinking windowor a thinking tab with like a littlething that you could click to openinside, it'll be like the user wants todo this. The user is thinking aboutdoing this. This is your uh short-termmemory sort of uh analog and like theway that our human brains work. Sort ofyour intermediate memory is your backand forth messages with the agent. Soit's like the actual like message chainthat you are having. Those aren'tremoved like reasoning tokens are. Andso this is just always stored and sentwith every API call. Long-term memoryare things that persist across sessions.So they're variables that are stored inclaude chat GBT etc. On the right handside here, I have that same message thatI sent earlier as part of our demo whereI scrape 200 HVAC owners. If I show youguys how all of this memory works incontext, basically this over here, okay,and then its replies are what are calledintermediate messages. Anything insideof this thinking tab is like yourshort-term, okay? And then long-term arelike things that are stored within myfile space. So they're things like, youknow, my agents MD. They're things likemy Gmail accounts.json. They're thingslike my token leftclick. If this allseems like magic to you right now, don'tworry. You're going to get to the pointyou can actually understand andinterpret everything within anintegrated development environment bythe end of the program. But I justwanted you guys to be on the same pagehere that this over here is like anintermediate piece of memory. It's goingto include all messages that are sentand received from you and the agent andthen everything in between the reasoningloops and stuff for short-term whereaslong-term tend to be files and thensystem prompts. Right now, one of theprimary failure modes in Agentic systemsright now is because of um context. Andcontext, for those people that don'tknow, is just all of like the theletters and words and tokens that arebeing stored in a model at any given onepoint in time. Uh the way that agentsmanage context limitations right now isthey are summarizing previous steps tosave on tokens by compressing the fullhistory into key takeaways. If you thinkabout it, like the way that I write andthe way that the model writes isn'tactually like super token efficient.What it does is it makes a bunch ofsummaries of these constantly. So if youknow this is my actual chat window ifyou think about it that's the messagethat the agent sent me and this is themessage that I sent the agent this isthe message that it sent me back andblah blah blah what it'll doperiodically just to save on the tokencost is it'll actually just summarize itin as high density a form as humanlypossible so we take maybe like a 500worduh uh context and then chunk that downinto like a a 100 or maybe a 50wordcontext. It'll do so periodicallywithout losing you the core details justby rewriting it in various ways that arejust a lot simpler. For instance, Icould say hello, how are you doing? Myname is Nick Sarif. Or I could say, hidash, how you do question mark, I'm NickSarif. And if you just like count up thetotal number of characters there, thelatter one is obviously going to be alot more efficient. They also don'tstore reasoning in the main loop. Itgenerated temporary and then itdisappears. It does store intermediateresults externally by offloading thedatabases, files, and other vectorstores. And then it'll now load therelevant context on demand to only pullin what is needed for the current step.Um, you know, you can build this inexplicitly using something called a ragor retrieve augmented generation system,which I'll talk about later, or you can,uh, you know, just let the model do itsown thing and it does a pretty good jobof it. When we make it to reflection,this is where the agent self-evaluates.So that's where it examines its outputsto detect errors and then assess whetheror not what it wanted to do actuallyworked. It identifies the approaches arefailing. it knows when to pivot and itjust selforrects. This is really likethe intelligence of the model to behonest. Um, if you don't have thisreflection loop, you will just have ascript like a typical Python script orlike an nadn or make.com or zapier orgum loop or lindy automation that justbreaks at the first hiccup. And this isalso really important in what's calledself-annealing which I'm going to covera little bit more of later. But it'sessentially the way that an agenticworkflow can run and then also just healitself as it encounters errors and soon. Finally, we have what is called theorchestration or coordination layer. Theway that I think of it as if you justget all of these steps, right? Soplanning, tool use, memory, thenreflection. Okay, orchestration doesn'texist within the loop. It sort of existsoutside of it or maybe inside of it. Andthen it's just responsible for shuttlingthe information around from step tostep. And that's really cool, right? Itlooks at the results of the plan. Itthen feeds that into the right tools. Itthen enters what it needs to enter inmemory. and then it looks at the resultsof the reflection and then changes thenext loop of the planning and so on andso on and so forth infinitely. I thinkof it as like the brain that combinesall the components that we just talkedabout similar to how your brain combinesinputs from like your ears and your eyesand your nose and your skin and yourmouth and your memory and it just likefactors everything in and then this iswhat thinks and then ultimately comes upwith decisions. Now there are a coupleof different approaches uh right now fororchestration. uh there's an approachwith crew AI right now that usesrole-based team structures and so youknow up at the top you have some sort ofmanager and then underneath you maybehave like a a marketer and then you havelike a software engineer and you knowthe manager exists above the marketerand the software engineer and themarketer has like you know some internsand so on and so forth the softwareengineer has some juniors this is oneway of doing it um and it's a way thatyou know crew AAI has done reasonablywell with like the sort of frameworkrole-based team structure I think It'skind of like an organization and I thinkthat's just looking at things like ahuman being would. I think they'reactually just much more efficient waysto organize. So I don't personally dothis with the directive orchestration umexecution framework and then cloudskills. Instead, what we do is webasically give AI access to um bothhighle instructions and then tools tohave it execute. And then this AI overhere, this is sort of like thatorchestrator that we were talking aboutbefore. It just looks the high levelinstructions, looks at the tools,matches up the two, does stuff, storesthings into a memory, and then it justloops over and over and over in thatPTML loop. Claude skills is kind ofsimilar. It just um organizes theinstructions. If we visualize this foryou guys, it basically just storesthings into a folder. This foldercontains both the highle instructionsand the specific tool use and anyadditional resources. And then the modelnow just accesses a folder instead ofaccessing you know two differentfolders. And really the point I'm tryingto make is no framework is perfect yet.I imagine the real best framework in thefuture is just going to be a combinationof all these. You know taking the bestparts and leaving the crappiest parts.Um but they are all improving rapidly asthe space gets m more and more mature.So my recommendation is we're not goingfor perfection here. We just want whatworks. And in my case um I use doughbecause you know I came up with it andthen it's a big part of all the contentthat I'm producing now. So I mean thisworks reasonably well right now. Sure,maybe there's another framework outthere that'll get us from 97% accuracyto 98.5. I'll worry about that frameworkwhen it's here. For now, I'm going to dowhat I can with the 97. Okay, we're nowtalking text. This is the universalinterface. When I want to talk to mymodel, I do so through text, right? WhenI want to talk to my model and I don'tknow, I try and give it a call orsomething like you can do on claw onchatbt and stuff like that. What'sreally occurring is I'm transcribingmost of that into text. Now agents ifyou think about it are actually a stepback in terms of our interfaces for now.Back in the day and when I say back inthe day I mean like you know very veryrecently um most people use these dragand drop no code tools right and theseare actually really pretty and they'revery easily interpretable and you cansee how the data flows and so now webasically said no screw that we justwant a bunch of words on a screen rightwhich obviously has a bunch of issues interms of presentation our ability tovisualize them and understand them.Right now we are taking a step back interms of the interface. It's sort oflike back in like the 70s, 80s and 90swhen most people coded and then builtthings on computers through DOSs orLinux terminals, right? It was like textin you get results out. That's it.Everything is just like some sort ofterminal or prompt. And in this way, Ithink it can be really intimidating forpeople because they just see a bunch oftext and they're like, "Oh, I'm not aprogrammer. Oh, I'm not like a, youknow, I don't learn through reading andwriting. I learn through seeing." And Ithink that's fair and it's a totallyokay criticism to make with these thingsright now. I imagine future systems aregoing to go back to a visual interface.It's just we don't have them yet. And asI mentioned earlier, my whole goal isjust make do with what we can at themoment. I imagine over the course of thenext couple years, somebody's going tobuild the most amazing visual interfaceprobably in conjunction with one ofthese agents or agent agentic workflowbuilders and then we'll have somethingthat combines the best of both worlds,natural language and visualization. Butright now we use some tools. And thosetools as of the time of this recordingare cursor, VS code, and anti-gravity.And that's where most agent interactionhappens today. That is the textheavyinterface that you guys saw earlier aspart of the demo where I just talk tothe model through a chat box and see itupdate files and stuff like that. On thelefth hand side, I have somerecommendations to make things feel alittle bit more natural. I personallyuse speech to text tools like um WhisperFlow and Aqua. These are really simple,straightforward transcription tools.They allow you to feel like you'retalking to an employee more than you arenecessarily writing text or typing atyour computer. I'm going to show youguys a bunch of practical examples of meusing this. But for now, let me give youguys a demo. On the left hand side here,I'm just talking to my model. Ibasically converted a workspace from thedirective orchestration executionframework to the cloud skill framework.And you guys are going to see both ofthose later. But for now, I just want toask it how things are going and youknow, if you can tell me something aboutit. So, I'm just going to hold down akey on my computer. Fn. Hey, can youtell me a little bit about the changesthat we just made? I let go and then Ipress enter and now I'm basicallytalking to my model. Of course, I stillhave to press the enter key. Futureiterations of this will probably changethat, but in this way, I'm maximizingthe bandwidth. Human beings can speak alot faster than they can type, but theycan also read a lot faster than they canlisten. So, this is typically how youoptimize both of those. All right, sowhat I have here are five cloud codeinstances. I'm running the latest modelof Opus, Opus 4.5, at least as of thetime of this recording. You guys mayhave some later versions, but just toshow you as the variability of modeloutputs, I've set all these to planmode. And what plan mode essentiallymeans to make a long story short is theyjust don't they can't take actionswithout my express or explicit approval.They write a plan for me first, then Iverify the plan. And so, just to showyou guys how different um various formsof these plans are, I'm going to open upfive tabs. I'm then going to um open upthe reasoning and kind of thinkingpanels here. Then we're just going toevaluate how different all of theseanswers are to the same simple question.What are some ways to send automatedproposals? So I sent that to all five.And you'll see that as we proceedthrough here, there are a variety ofdifferent routes that these modelsfollow. After this does its research andand plans, you end up with five answers.And you'll notice that um all five ofthese answers are different, meaningthat there is no like proceduralsimple step-by-step result here. themodels are doing different things everysingle time. This first one here says,"What type of proposal?" So, it's askingme some questions. The second one hereactually just went through and thenwrote me a big list of different optionsI could take. This third one here wroteme sort of a combination, ask me somequestions. And then it's giving me somecommon automation triggers alongsidesome more questions. This one here givesme these four options. And then this onehere gives me like a little table. Andthis is okay. I mean, obviously I'marriving at like the same sort of answerregardless, but I want you guys to knowthat like the way that businesses workis, you know, when somebody doessomething like they fill out a form orthey require an invoice sent orsomething of that nature. This level ofvariability in and of itself is way toomuch. There's no way that we couldreally like meaningfully add value to abusiness, whether it's our own businessor some other business with variabilitylike this, with like 30 40 50% variancein answers. What we need is when wegenerate an invoice, the invoice needsto be basically the same every time.When we generate a receipt, the receiptneeds to be the same every time. When wesend an email, maybe an onboarding thingor whatever, these should be the sameevery time. When a new form comes intoour system and we need to qualify them,we should use the exact samequalification framework every time. Anyserious company at scale that has thislevel of variability in their processeswon't be a serious company for long.which is why raw large language modelsare very difficult to use in u bothmid-market and enterprise styleapplications. Now the reason for this isbecause LLMs are probabilistic notdeterministic. I touched on this earlieron in the course but let me run youthrough how a large language modelactually works under the hood. So awhile back I actually built a largelanguage model. Well I guess kind of asmall language model. this guy AndreCararpathy, he um built this big uh likeGitHub repo showing people how to liketrain their own textbased mini GPT. Iwent through this whole thing and then Ibuilt my own mini GPT and it was reallyinstructive and I've since learned a lotmore about large language models andsort of what's going on under the hood.So let me just give you guys a verybrief demonstration. If you guysunderstand this, you guys will go a lotfurther towards getting how these agentsare working under the hood. What largelanguage models are are they arebasically machines and they are machinesthat operate off of a distribution ofoutcomes. What I mean by this is theyare statistics sort of pattern matchers.What a lot of people think is that largelanguage models will predict the singlebest next word but they don't do that.Instead they predict a statisticaldistribution of options that they couldpick from. What I mean is if I say hi,how are and then I have a little spaceand if you feed this into a model, whatyou may think you're going to get isyou're going to get the most likely nexttoken, right? Which is sort of likeuniverse A. You think you'll just getthe word you and then maybe a questionmark. But what you actually get is youget a whole graphof different outcomes and possible wordsthat you could choose from. This onemight be you. This one might bethe word things, right? How are things?This one here might be your, forinstance. And what happens is we usethis concept of temperature and top P tobasically randomize the process ofchoosing the next token. And so while Umay statistically be the most likelynext token, maybe U has like a 98%confidence score or something, despitethe fact that U is the most likely nexttoken, we're not always going to pickyou. What we're going to do is we'regoing to have some cutoff, which is sortof like this um top P. And then we'regoing to pick from one of these three orfour options. And we're going to do sowith a level of what's calledstochasticity or randomness. That meansthat you can't actually predict what thelarge language model is going to doevery time. Now, this isn't a bad thing.This is actually a good thing becausethink about it. If we could predict whatevery large language model was going todo, there would be no reason to have alarge language model. If you justtrained things and always outputed theexact same thing every time, there wouldbe no way for the model to reasonflexibly about things. It wouldessentially just be a giant series ofdominoes that just, you know, knock overone to the other. Those are some reallycrappy looking dominoes to the other tothe other. And then, you know, we'd beable to predict everything that's goingon. Anyway, models um randomness andstochasticity is actually a big chunk ofhow they are capable of solving problemsand reasoning for us. But what I'mtrying to say is there's a level ofrandomness added to every step of theprocess. Right? So the first thing isthey predict a distribution of options.What that means is there is somerandomness. There is some statistical uherror here or or inaccuracy. Next, wecan set the temperature and top P. Theseare settings that you'll find inparameters for most large languagemodels nowadays. Those settings alsointroduce some randomness to theprocess. You now have um architectureslike the mixture of experts architecturewhich is basically where they don't justhave one large language model do this.They test this simultaneously acrossfour or five large language models andthen they pick the most commonly votedtask. Believe it or not this introducessome additional variance. Then even attemperature zero tiny input variationscan produce wildly different outputsbecause of randomness. Obviously thereis um sort of like probabilities here atevery step. Now in math these arebasically called compound probabilities.And I don't mean to make this a maththing, but if you're working with AI,you might as well um learn at least alittle bit of the math underneath itbecause it'll help you understand howall these things work. Essentially,these compound probabilities make itvery unlikely that you'll be able toachieve the exact same outcome everytime on the large language models own.And so what happens is you have theseerror rates that compoundcatastrophically. I'll give you a quickexample. Let's say you have five stepsin a process. You want the largelanguage model to, I don't know, go outinto your email inbox, pick the bestemail, then you want it to summarizethat email, then you want to feed thatsummary into some other model, then youwant that other model to take thatsummary and then combine it with a bunchof other summaries to give you a bigdigest of the day. So if you have fivesteps and each of them are 90%successful, the way that math worksreally is although every individual stepmay be 90% successful, if you math itout and actually multiply out 90%success for step one time 90% successfor step two times 90% success for stepthree times 90% success for step fourtimes 90% success for step five, you endup not with a 90% success rate acrossthe entire process. you end up with a59% success rate across the entireprocess. Essentially what occurs isalthough the first step might be 90%.The second step when multiply makes it081 and then you have 64 or 74 or 63 andso on and so forth until eventually youractual total error rate is significantlyhigher. Your success rate on the otherhand is significantly lower. And so whenyou add more and more steps to thisprocess, you know, if you get to 10,it's 35% success rate. If you're at 20,it's 12% success rate. This applies evenif models are 95% successful at specifictasks. What ends up happening isbasically at every step of the task. Agood way to consider it is the totalrange and outcomes gets bigger andbigger and bigger and bigger. There aresuper successful outcomes, sort of quasysuccessful outcomes. They're notsuccessful outcomes and they're likecatastrophic outcomes, right? And thisrange in business is nowhere near tightenough for most companies to trustsystems like this. Now, because mostbusiness workflows are multi-step andbecause people have typically trieddoing things like this with dumber,simpler models with no frameworks, youknow, most raw LLMs are actually justnot usable in business, aside from copypaste outputs, which is why people tendto do that. Just as an aside, imagine ifyou were a business that made $100,000 amonth and you sent a wrong invoice 5% ofthe time. What sort of impact do youthink you that would have to yourbusiness? Do you think that would have a5% impact to your business? No, thatwould have like a 95% impact on yourbusiness. If I'm one of your clients andyou send me the wrong invoice even oneout of 20 times, I don't think I'm goingto work with you the 21st time. So, theroot cause here is we're askingprobabilistic systems to dodeterministic work. Probabilistic isthat big sort of uninterpretablethought process that cloud that I showedyou guys earlier. Whereas deterministicis what businesses use where you haveone step going into the second stepgoing into the third step going into thefourth step and so on and so on and soon and so forth. This over here is whatbusiness is and the best businesses, youknow, productize and standardizeeverything. And then this over here umoperates in the realm of probabilitieswhich ultimately we can't use. What isthe solution here? Well, it's notnecessarily just making LLM smarter.Although keep in mind, the smarter themodels get typically the less error andvariance they do have. That's great. Butthe actual solution is we don't have towait for model intelligence to get smartin an unspecified amount of time. Wejust build a framework around thosemodels that turns these really ricketyoutputs into something that we couldstill use anyway despite the fact thatthere's variability in the process. Wegive them defined nodes and stepsbetween each important thing that wewant. And in that way, because we'reshortening the total gap, models arecapable of performing economicallyvaluable work. So what we're going to dois wrap this super galaxy brainintelligence in a framework. And thisframework is going to allow us tocontrol it for beneficial purposes forultimately business ends. Okay. So howdo you actually do that? Well, this isnow where you get into DO or thedirective orchestration and executionframework. What we do is we separateconcerns. Directives up at the very topprovide very clear unambiguousinstructions to the system. These aredocuments which if you guys rememberwere sort of the first rung on thatknowledge ladder. Orchestration, if youthink about the PTMRO loop, is where thelarge language model does its thing. Itchooses what to do and in what order.And then execution scripts are theactual heavy lifting. And we don't dothat with the model itself. What we dothat are with little snippets of codethat the model has built, then test, andthen retested over and over and overagain. Okay? I typically do this inPython right now, but I want you guys toknow you can do this with whateverprogramming language you want. Themodels tend to be pretty good at I wantto say most of them equally. The reasonwhy this works so well is because ofthis concept of separation of concerns.Essentially, anything that isdeterministic aka something that like abusiness would use. So maybe an APIcall, some sort of data transformation,some sort of file ops actually go intocode. Code is always the same everysingle time. If you give it input A,it'll always give you output B. There'snever any variability unless youspecifically program that in. So, it'sreally, really interpretable. It's very,very clear how it works. And you neverreally need to wonder, hm, is that doingwhat I wanted it to do? Because it'sonly going to do what you told it to do.And then what we do is we leverage thereally flexible, cool parts of AI tomake judgments, to make routingdecisions, and so on and so forth. Codeis really reliable. It's also super fastand precise. LLMs are flexible,adaptive, and then also handle ambiguityreally well. So, what we're doing iswe're combining the best of both parts.We combine AI's incredible ability toroute and be flexible and so on and soforth with deterministic code'sextraordinarily ability to run reallyquickly, really precisely, and really,really repeatably. When you do this, youget the best of both worlds, and you canmake a ton of money with it. That's howAgentic workflows work in a nutshell.What's interesting is you probably wouldnot have understood any of this had younot watched the last hour to hour and ahalf of content all about the basis andthe foundations. Some other reasons LLMsare really really bad at basicoperations. When I say basic operations,I mean math. Up until quite recently, umLLM couldn't even count the number ofletters in a word. That's something thatyou could build a Python script to do inlike 0.1 seconds. You know, if you havea big list of numbers or something, youuse LLM to sort those numbers. It's kindof like hiring a PhD intelligence tocount some inventory. It's just not thebest cost basis on your end. You'regoing to spend way too much money andget way too little of a result. Hencewhy we pushed the deterministic tasks toscripts and then reserve the LLMprocessing with the tokens for actualthinking. Also makes everything cheaper.Just for the purposes of demonstration,if I gave an LLM a really simple taskand I said, "Hey, I have all of these umletters, okay, and they're all arranged,you know, in this list." And let's saythis list hypothetically isn't just, youknow, six letters long. It's like a 100thousand or 10,000 items long orsomething. It's just like really reallylong. Okay, so just pretend that I putthis thing together and I give it to anLM. If I had the large language modelsort this thing, it would have to runbillions upon billions upon billions ofmathematical operations to sort thislist. If I gave this to a Python script,it could literally do this entire thingin one function call. I could probablydo it in like 5 seconds on my own, noteven with a large language model. And itwould take milliseconds. If you look atthe actual mathematical time and thenthe resource usage when you use uhdeterministic scripts to do things likethis, these mathematical simpleoperations like sort a big list, youcould do it 10,000 to 100,000 timesfaster with deterministic code. And thenit's also for the most part free becauseit's operating on your CPU orextraordinarily low cost cuz it'soperating on some cloud CPU or GPU umthat's very very uh affordable. Thisgets more and more and more difficultthe more you do. Instead of having thelarge language model do math for us,what we do is we build a calculator tooland then we say, "Hey, can you call thecalculator tool to do the math for us?"In this way, obviously, we're maximizingthe best of all possible worlds. So nowI want to show you the differencebetween using a large language model'snative intelligence to do something thatI think most would consider very simple,which is just sorting a list, and thenusing a Python script to do it instead.And I'm showing you this because thereare so many advantages to usingprocedural deterministic tools likePython scripts. It's hard for me to knowwhere to begin, but I just wanted togive this to you guys sort of as arepresentative example. So, what I'vedone up here is I've just had AI or anagent assist me with the creation of abrief demo list that I'm going to sort.The first thing I'm going to do is I'mgoing to tell it to sort the list on itsown. Sort the list using only yournative LLM intelligence. Do not make useof any tools. Time yourself and at theend, let me know how long it took.What I'm going to do now is let it run.And you'll see that when its native LLMintelligence does the sorting, it takessignificantly longer in order to do so.We can see the time that it's taking byexpanding this reasoning tab.Scroll all the way down here. You cansee it's actually manually outputtingevery token. Here we go. And now it'sactually gone through and sorted thelist alphabetically by name. Okay.Anyway, it told us it didn't have itsown internal clock or whatever, butrealistically, as you guys could see andprobably timestamped the video, thistook what, 30 seconds or something likethat from start to finish. Now, I wantyou to see how quickly it is when wejust run a script to do it instead. Now,run the script.So, what it's going to do is insteadit's just going to call said script,then it'll immediately sort this withsignificantly higher levels of accuracyon the right hand side. Now, I shouldnote that the amount of time it took meto call the large language model andactually have it do the thing, that's abunch of latency here that we're notactually taking into account.Realistically, this took 53milliseconds. The LLM, I mean, it'ssaying 3 to 5 seconds, but as you cantell, it doesn't really understand itsown internal processing. So, it's closerto, you know, 15 to 30. That is umseveral hundred times faster. And notonly is it several hundred times faster,a point that I'm going to makerepeatedly throughout this course isalso several hundred times freer becauserunning a Python script to sort of liston your own CPU or even on cloud CPUwhen we get into uh posting web hooksand actually hosting these things onservers that aren't ours is like isessentially free. I mean it's it'soccurring in the space of I don't know aneuron in your brain firing. Thisthing's doing a whole whole buttload ofwork. And you can see even down here itsaid this is the core argument forpushing deterministic work into tools.The LLM handles decision-making whereasthe script handles execution. That's amajor part of how we are going to betalking about how to use these and buildthese agentic workflows later on. So ina nutshell, my whole point is reserveyour large language model calls forjudgment. Let code handle the rest. Bydoing so, things will be significantlyfaster, things will be significantlymore reliable and things will also besignificantly cheaper. This is where theDO directive orchestration executionframework comes into play and it's howwe're going to be building out the restof the workflows in this course. Let'stalk a little bit more about how toactually do this. Now, okay, sounsurprisingly, right now everything todo with the Gentic Workflows happens inwhat's called an IDE. If you guys areunfamiliar with IDE, that stands forintegrated development environment. Now,idees look like this, and you've seenthem already multiple times throughoutthis course. What they are is they arebasically programming environments. Now,agentic workflows are not idees. To beclear here, this is just a way thatwe're communicating with them. If youguys remember way back in the beginningof this course, I talked about how chatswere sort of like an interface and thenagents were like things that livedinside of the interface almost the waythat a crustation has shells and it canchange shells at will. Well, right now,because programmers usually build stuffand because agentic workflows arecomposed of the same thing thatprogrammers used to build, we justhappen to do them in an IDE. But I wantyou to know that this is most likely tochange. Now, I don't like IDEIDesbecause they just are really overlytechnical for a lot of newbies, peoplethat don't understand this stuff, andthey look at it and they look at all thelines on the page and all the differentpartitions and sections and then theygo, "Holy crap, Nick. This is way toocomplicated. I'm not a technical person.I don't want to deal with it." But whatI want to do in this course is I want toavail you of the notion that you have tobe technical in order to understandwhat's going on. What this is is this isjust the same thing as like a bunch ofinstrumentation panels on a car orsomething. You know, the very first timeyou step into a car, you don't know howthe odometer works. You don't have anyidea what the gear shift is, how theradio works, and all that stuff. This isthe exact same thing. I'm currentlytaking my pilot's license right now, andlet me tell you, the damninstrumentation panels on even theoldest and and cheapest of aircraft aresort of the way that I imagine IDs areto people that have never touched thesethings. So I entirely empathize with youand I'm going to walk you through it allin a moment. So as mentioned IDE standsfor integrated development environment.I think of it as basically MicrosoftWord just for code instead of you knownatural text documents. They're composedof workspaces and this is the samelanguage that basically any IDE will usewhere you basically just write organizerun and then manage everything in oneplace. And it's important for me to notelike how this works in a historicalbasis cuz otherwise you'll be like whythe hell did we choose this? Well, thereason why is because back in the day,we actually used to have like five orsix different tools. Uh, programmerswould use tool number one to like writetheir code. Then they'd use tool numbertwo to test their code. Then they jumpover into tool number three to, I don'tknow, run their code, tool number fourto host their code, tool number five tocommit their code into a a repository sothey could save it, and tool number sixto do something else. And so there wasjust so much switching going on, right?We had to jump from tool number one totool number two, whatever. And thensomebody was just like, "Wait a second.Why don't we just combine all of theseinto one unified tool? Sure, theinterface will probably be an absolutecluster, but you know, this is more thanenough and it'll probably simplify andand alleviate some of the contextswitching." And that's basically whathappened here. We basically just stuckthem all into this one tool. And thistool is really like 20 or 30 toolssimultaneously, which is why it looks socomplicated. Now, over the course ofjust the last year or so, ids havegotten way smarter. And I mean smarterhere as in like AI. So, in the lastyear, basically every IDE has added someform of AI chat capability. Old schoolones like VS Code, and I'm going tocover what all these are in a minute,added built-in AI assistance quiterecently. And then newer tools likeanti-gravity, big one that Google justreleased, are now less like codingworkspace, and they've just eliminatedand streamlined most of the UX. So, it'salmost all just like AI based agentstuff. Basically, the line betweenwriting code and then just directing AIto do it all for you through naturallanguage is blurring really quickly. Andthat's um one of the motivations behindour course actually. So this over hereis VS Codes logo. This over here is umanti-gravities. And this over here iscursor. These are three relativelypopular tools that I'm going to touch onin a little bit more detail. And thenI'm actually going to walk through VSCode and anti-gravity just so you guyscould see how all this stuff reallyplays out. In a nutshell, if you guysare going to be comfortable with agents,you need to be comfortable in an IDE.That's just the whole goal of today'smodule. So three areas of your IDE.There's a file explorer on the left.There's an editor panel in the centerand then there's an agent chat panel onthe right. Let's cover all of them indetail. On the lefth hand side, we havethe file explorer. The file exploreralmost always looks something like this.All this is is it's just another waythat you guys can explore files. Justlike on a Mac or a PC, you have thenative file explorer. Here, your filesare just arranged vertically as follows.This little tab just means that this isa folder. And if you click on one ofthese, obviously, this will open andexpand. and then you'll be able to seeall the files within. So just as like asanity test, this um first kind of linehere, this first folder is period claand there are a bunch of other filesinside of period claude. Same thinghere. Period dev container periodprompts period tmp period venv. Youmight be wondering, Nick, what the helldo any of these things mean? I'll behonest, I have AI do most of that. Idon't even know, nor do I really care.The whole job of coding is not the pointof gentic workflow building. All I'mdoing is I'm just giving highleinstructions and I have the AI deal withthe how. Next up, we have a directivesfolder as you guys see here, anexecution folder as we guys see here. UhI also have a folder called for_youtubein my workspace. This is where I storethings like this course node modulesprompts trigger, right? What you'llnotice is eventually we run out offolders, these little things with thetabs, and then everything else is just afile. So I have this file here, thisfile here, this file here. We we got aton of files in the workspace. Buthopefully now you guys have like lookedat it and squinted hard enough at itthat you guys at least understand thatthere's nothing magical going on here.This is just a file explorer. So justlike with any other file explorer, youcan create files, you can rename files,you can delete files, and you canorganize everything you want from here.For Aentic work, at least in our case,the DO framework. This is also where thedirectives and executions folders live.As we saw earlier, I had the directivesfolder here and then the executionfolder. I'm going to dive into those andactually show you what these look likein a moment. And really just the way tothink about this whole thing is as afiling cabinet. Okay, that does not looklike an F, but we're going to roll withit regardless. This is just your filingcabinet for your agent. And so that ishow I want you to think about thismoving forward. In the middle of thepage, you have the editor panel. Now,this is typically in the center,although some idees will vary. That'sokay. I'll cover two instances today.When you click on a file, this is wherethey open. And so for instance, as wesee here in this middle panel, I have afile open called capitalized agents.mmd.Now we get into system prompts and howto actually control these u modelsthrough long-term context later on. Butthis is basically just like a file thatyou will add to any workspace and it'lljust be injected at the very top of youragent. So the agent will just always seethis in its context 24/7. And in mycase, what I do is I just give it somehighle instructions describing myframework. Hey, you operate within athree-layer architecture that separatesconcerns to maximize reliability becauseof the same things that I just taught toyou. LLMs are probabilistic. Mostbusiness logic deterministic so on andso on and so forth. Okay? So, we'llcover this file later, but for now, Ijust want you to know that you canactually open multiple files and tabsjust like a browser. You guys see herehow this is sort of like a tab. Well,you can actually have multiple otherones open, too. I could have, you know,another file here, and then another filehere, and another file here. You'llnotice that some of these letters aredifferent colors. You see how this one'sblue and then this uh little um you knowright arrow is green and then this textis white and then this is uh sort oforangey. Well, the reason why is justbecause um this this is a naturallanguage file. This is markdown it'scalled which is a specific format. Butlike when you're dealing with code likePython and JavaScript and Node and so onand so forth, there's just so manydifferent types of text that coloring itjust makes it a little bit easier on theeyes and you can just tell what's goingon faster. So in the case of markdown,which is the format that my naturallanguage or almost plain text files arein, um if something is in blue, it's aheader. So you know that this is like aheader of some kind, right? Same thingover here, right? This is a header orit's like bolded, right? So that's whatthat is. If something is in orange, youknow it's written in like code format.So anytime you write something in codeformat, it's done with these little backtexts. Something is in white, odds areit's just like normal text. Something'sin green, it's like a comment orsomething like that, right? This dependson the format. Typically, we only usetwo or three formats in Aentic Workflow.So, you're just going to figure this outreally quick. Nor does it really matterto be honest because you you neveractually read files. And that actuallytakes me to a great point. Um, you canlook at files in the editor panel, butyou'd almost never actually manuallyedit them. My rule of thumb is if I'mmanually editing a file, I am doingsomething horrifically wrong becausethere's no real reason why I should bemanually editing a file. I justcommunicate with my agent and then itdoes it for me. Even if I want to changea specific file, I won't go into thatfile. I'll just say hey change specificfile to do this and then typically I'lljust give it a oneline description ofwhat I want it to do and it'll gothrough and it'll do it in the mostefficient way. In this way I'm almostlike the CEO of my own company. I mean Iam the CEO of my own company but I amlike the CEO of my own agent company. Ijust give very highle instructions andthen it's the agent that interpretsthose highle instructions and doesthings. So that's two out of the threesections. The third is the agent chatpanel that exists all the way on theright. So the agent chat panel ishopefully very familiar to you guys.Same sort of thing as just any chat overthe last four or five years. In thiscase, I just said, "Hey, what's up?" Itthen read through agents.mmd. As I toldyou, it always reads through this at thevery beginning of every run. And then itsays, "Hey, not much. Just ready tohelp. What are you working on?" So, thisis your primary interface. This isreally where you're going to live. Anduh it's such a primary interface thatthe modern idees like anti-gravity andstuff have basically done away witheverything else except for this. And youjust talk to this all day. So, you'lltype your instructions here. Agent willrespond. You can even see the thinkingtab over here with the reasoningprocesses is deciding what actions totake. That's really cool forinterpretability reasons. And it's alsojust one of my favorite things to watchbecause you're seeing the AI's internalmonologue. It's also good and and usefulwhen you're building aic workflows,which obviously we're going to cover uhquite shortly so that you could stop itif it makes some mistake. Um you couldsee where maybe an error is, do yourdebugging and so on and so forth.Finally, just an obligatory section oncode. I know code is really intimidatingfor a lot of people. I want you to knowthat all scripts are is they're justtext written in a hyperspecific way.This over here is what's called Python.Do I know what's going on over here? Imean, yeah. I've done some coding inPython, so I can look at this. I cankind of interpret it, but I I I can't doso very quickly, and I don't know what'sgoing on for the most part. You don'tactually need to have any clue what'sgoing on in the code these days in orderto do really powerful, effective thingswith them because, as I mentionedearlier, AI is just a way better coderthan you. So, if you find yourselfopening coding scripts and stuff, you'reprobably doing something wrong. I neveractually have a page open like thisbecause it just means no difference tome. Now, if you do find yourself openingthis for whatever reason, I want you toknow that a Python script or whateverlanguage you're using, Python's just oneof the many. It's just a set ofinstructions for the computer to follow.It's the same sort of thing as like thethe the bullet points that I was showingyou guys at the beginning of the coursewhere I was describing an instantly autoreply bot. This is just a set ofinstructions written in a way that thiscomputer understands, but it's literallyjust text sitting in a file. It doesn'tdo anything on its own. What you have todo in order to turn this into some sortof function, turn this into some sort ofexecution script, is you have to run it.And that just means telling the computerto run the instructions. And typicallythe way you do this is you do thisthrough the terminal yourself. You'dfind the file, you'd see it's calledPython script. py. Then you'd actuallygo into the terminal and veryintimidatingly, you know, if you evenscript one character, it's not going towork. You actually have to type all thatyourself. Well, guess what? you nolonger have to do that. The agent justdoes all the coding for you and then italso runs the code for you. That's whatmakes it such a powerful um orchestratorand that's why I live entirely in theeditor. Agents just run all the code. Ijust say, "Hey, run my Upwork scraper."Do I have to know the format to toexecute it? No, I don't. What I do is Ijust say, "Do the thing I want." It'llthen do some thinking. It'll find thespecific file that I'm referencing andthen it'll go and it'll run it. And sonow this is actually running. It handlesthe entire execution loop autonomously.That's the whole point of agenticworkflows. So don't worry about beinghyper precise. If you spend too muchtime being hyper precise, you're kind ofwasting it because models, as Imentioned, are just millions of timesfaster than us. They think justextraordinarily quickly. This is reallyjust the domain of the model.Communicate with it almost like you'd becommunicating with an employee or staffmember. Obviously, you wouldn't say,"Hey, Pete, run the Upwork scraper. Giveme the results. Uh, post it to Slack andthen give me the Google sheet URL. Hey,could you send Sandy an email about X,Y, and Z? Use the email template. Justspeak to it like you'd speak with anemployee. Don't speak with it like you'dspeak with a programmer, and you'regoing to do a lot better. When you dothis, your IDE becomes essentially avisual chatbot where you can just watchthe agent work 24/7. And that's wherethings get really cool and reallypowerful. So, back in the day when wedidn't have agents, we had to create alot of this stuff manually. What I haveopen here on the right is the terminal.And the terminal is essentially thecommand line interface way that youwould communicate with your computer inorder to get valuable knowledge workdone. Usually programming work. And sobefore you know I couldn't just say heywrite me a script that does XYZ. Why? Itwould say command not found. This onlyworks in the context of specificcommands. You know instead I would haveto use Python 3 for instance. I'dactually have to open it up and then I'dhave to, I don't know, create afunction. So, let's just do x= 5, y =10, um, x + y equals what? 15. As I'msure you guys could tell, this is prettylaborious. And obviously, this is like ahighly specialized domain of knowledgethat you have to learn in order to beable to communicate with things in thisway. Well, if I clear all that out ofthe way, with our previous example, wehad um a list, right? That list lookedkind of like this. It was a big list anditems with water filter, compass watch,matches, so on and so forth. So back inthe day, if I wanted to build a scriptto do this, I needed a tremendous amountof domain specific knowledge to be ableto put together scripts like this. Whatthis does here is this. This actuallysorts the list. It's Python 3 C importJSON, D equals JSON.load, openitem.json, D items equals sort keyequals lambda. I mean, this is like thisis a whole another language you have tolearn. You know, it's like me trying towrite an essay in Portuguese orsomething. You know, the amount of timeand energy it would take for me to beable to know just how to do this onething would be immense. And you know, Ican do it and then my list gets nice andsorted. But the amount of work that Ihad to do in order to get that done istremendous. Contrast that with ouragent. All I'm going to say is write mea simple function to sort this filealphabetically, then execute it. It'sgoing to do some thinking to begin. Sofirst it's going to read the file thenit's going to see the structure and it'sgoing to write the script and thenexecute it basically immediately. Theamount of time that it previously wouldhave taken me somebody with no knowledgehow to do this probably is on the ordersof like a day at least just to be ableto write that script let alone all otherones and this thing can now do it in youknow just a few moments. You offload thecoding to the model have it actually puttogether these deterministic scriptswhich are a lot more reliable and thenwhat you do is you just sort of sit backand orchestrate. Okay, so IDEs, as Imentioned, were kind of like codeeditors, right? And they've been aroundfor quite a while, at least 15 years.They weren't designed with AI agents inmind, but the new breed of IDs just giveagents access to everything. They haveyour editor access, they have terminalaccess, they even have browser access.Now, so there are three main options Iwant to talk about today. Each of themhave different trade-offs, and yourchoice depends on how much flexibilityversus simplicity you want.The first is anti-gravity. I'm actuallygoing to be opening this in a moment andthen running through this in a lot moredetail. But basically, this is Google'sbrand new agentic development platformlaunched super recently and it's very,very good. It's designed primarily fortheir Gemini class of models, but itsupports other providers as well. It'sthe cleanest and simplest interface inthe bunch, has by far the lowestlearning curve, and it looks somethinglike this. On the lefth hand side, ithas the file explorer. On the right handside, you have your agent. And you'llnotice in the middle, it's actuallyempty. And there's the ability to openup agent managers, code with the agentor edit the code inline. For the mostpart, this thing is really simplifiedand it knows that you don't really givea crap about what the files look like.Obviously, if you open a file, it'llopen up in the middle, but for the mostpart, it abstracts away all that for youand you just communicate with the modeland it does what you want it to do. Nextis VS Code. That stands for VisualStudio Code. This is a lot older of aplatform. It's actually the platformthat all other platforms are kind ofbased on nowadays. It was built byMicrosoft. It's their free co-et codeeditor and it's very, very popular. Thebig draw to Visual Studio Code is itsextensibility. You can't really see thisthat well, but over on the right there'sthis little extensions tab. And VS Codejust has like a massive supportedlibrary of all the different extensionsyou could want. These extensions arepretty cool. Now, for the most partnowadays, we just use like the CloudCode extension, GitHub Copilot, right?These like AI model extensions that addAI functionality into your code. Butthere are some cool things that you canbuild in with extensions that just allowyou to use whatever the heck you wantwith it. So, I see this as less of likea specific AI editor and more as justlike a really general editor that a lotof people are used to. They just importextensions to turn their editor into,you know, a hyperoptimized AI one. I'mgoing to be showing you this one aswell, just because it's very popular.Finally, I want to chat a little bitabout Kurser. Kurser is actually one ofthe first like AI editors on the market,like an an editor that was builtspecifically for AI in mind. I don'treally like using Kurser these daysmyself. Um, obviously it's baked indirectly to every part of the platform.But for the most part, I just findanti-gravity is better in every way,shape, and form. Um, very similarinterface to what you guys are used to.So, there's a file explorer, there's aneditor, and so on and so forth. The fileexplorer, which you can't actually seein this screenshot, is usually just onthe left hand side. Then in the middlehere, you have like the big code editor,and then on the right hand side, youhave both a chat and a composer. Samesort of vibe to anti-gravity. Aside fromthat, it just has access to everything.I'm not going to cover this one justbecause while it's somewhat popular,it's not as popular as the other twooptions and I want to be mindful ofeverybody's time. Okay, so let's startwith anti-gravity. Prettystraightforward stuff. On the lefth handside, we have that file explorer, whichI talked about to you guys earlier. Inthe middle, we have obviously theeditor, which is where you can openspecific files and then change things.And on the right hand side, you have theagent window, which is where you cantalk with agents. So, just to be clear,I sent this agent a message saying,"Hey, what's up?" And then it tells me,"Hey, I'm ready to help. I see you'vebeen working on a variety of workflowsrecently from YouTube transcriptanalysis and panda dooc proposals tolead scraping. What would you like totackle today? To cover the middlesection here as I talked about earlieruh markdown.md is the file format thatwe put a lot of instructions in. Andyou'll notice that we have a blue sortof headers over here you know orangetext over here and then the rest of itis uh is white. And so what I've openedup is I've opened up a simple directivecalled the Upwork scrape apply systemwhich just scrapes Upwork jobs matchingAI automation keywords, generatespersonalized cover letters and proposalsand outputs to a Google sheet with aone-click apply link. The whole ideabehind the system, and I'm going to showyou how to build ones just like this ina moment, is you can automate theprocess for the most part of applying toan Upwork job. Upwork being a freelanceplatform. This sort of stuff is going tovery quickly become an integral part ofmost people's workflows. So as you cansee here, we define some inputs. So, wegive it some tools. We give it a filter.You may be thinking like, good lord,Nick, did you write all this? No, ofcourse not. I had AI, write all of thisfor me based off some simple bulletpoints. It's very meta. You use AI tocome up with the instructions foranother AI model. Um, in a way, in thatway, you are literally just some personthat is giving some minor instructions.You're acting more as like the motivatorthan anything else. Okay, I remember Italked about on the left hand side howthere'd be a couple of different foldershere, directives and then executions.I'm just going to open up directives andshow you guys around a little bit. So,as you can see here, I have a bunch ofthese different flows set up. One ofthem was Upwork, scrape, apply, butthere's, I don't know, another 15 or so.Create proposal MD, cross nicheoutliers, deep research, pitch, and soon and so forth. Let's say I'm in thebuilding process of an agentic workflow.What I'm going to do is I'm going to askthis to help me out. Hey, is thereanything that I could do to the createproposal directive to improve it?Suggest some alternative approaches.Going to enter that in. And now themodel is going to come up with some waysthat we can make things better. It'sgoing to do so with the directivestructure. Um we injected a prompt intoits uh agents MD, claude MD, Gemini MD,multiple different ways to initializesystem prompts, but it has all thecontext about what I mean. And this ishow Gemini's UX works. You know, analyzeand improve, create proposal directive.Gives me the reasoning loop over here,progress updates, it gives me a bigplan, and then I get someinterpretability, some access to itsthoughts. At the end of it, we end upwith, "Hey, you should add a human inthe loop review step. Hey, you shouldtry a web enrichment option. Hey, youshould handle variable token counts.Hey, you should do robust JSON handling.Hey, you should do a dynamic follow-upemail." That's pretty cool. I like theidea of number two. Number two soundsgreat. Why don't we give that a try? AllI'm doing is asking it for its opinion.I went through. I didn't like four outof the five, but I did like the second.So, now I'm just going to have thismodel go to the directive and thenupdate it to include a web enrichmentstep. It's then built me a plan thatlooks pretty straightforward and easy.I'm then going to okay this. What Ireally like about Gemini is it justshows you sort of like the trackedchanges really easy. And you can seehere that it's now provided anadditional step called research client.Understand the client's brand voice andcurrent context. So on and so forth. Ifa website URL is provided or can beinferred from the email domain, then usethis thing to fetch the client's landingpage. Analyze all this information andoutput a brief summary. So I like this.I'm going to accept it. And then I'mgoing to say, "Yeah, sounds great. Let'sgive this a try.As part of this specific workflow, um, Ihave the model ask me a bunch ofquestions about the client. To bereally, really straightforward here, I'mactually just going to open up chat GBTand then going to take a screenshot ofthis. I'll feed this in and I say, I'dlike you to give me a bunch of exampledata here. I'm feeding this into a modelfor a demo, for a YouTube video.I'm then going to have Chat GPTconstruct a big list of demoinformation, and then I'm going to feedthat in in a second.Okay, as you guys can see here, I have abunch of data sets here. Um, they fed mein 10. I'm just going to use one, usethis information for the demo.Cool. And now I'm sort of orchestratingmultiple AI models. I am certainly usingchatbt as a copy paste sort of thing,but I just wanted to show you guys thatlike this is data that is in a way real.It's data that is supplied outside ofthe system that I'm feeding into thisworkflow. I'm not having um Geminiitself within its own context come upwith it. I'm giving it a bunch ofinformation outside of things. Okay. Andat the end of it, I actually have afully functional proposal over here forbright path learning with an AI poweredstudent success predictor. How cool isthat? We have all of the problemstatements, the solution statements.It's really clean. It's pretty nicely uhwell done. Uh even includes someinformation here about pricing and so onand so forth. So, these are actualproposals that I sent to actual clients.As you guys see, we just generated abunch of demo information for ahypothetical demo client that actuallymeaningfully altered a workflow insomething like 30 seconds of actualwork. Everything else is me just waitingfor the model. Okay, so that wasanti-gravity. Now, I just want to showyou guys VS Code. And one of the reasonsI want to show you guys this is becauseI want to show you that you can open upthe same workspace on multiple differentIDEs. You could actually create aworkspace and then you could run it inanti-gravity, you could run it in VSCode, you could send it to your buddywho operates in cursor. There's so muchthat you could do here. It's fullyinteroperable. The only thing thatreally matters is the agent itself andthen the workspace. You could swap outGemini for GPT 5.2. You could swap thatout for Claude Opus. I mean therethere's just so many different optionshere obviously, but just want to giveyou guys um sort of a view into the factthat all the stuff is interoperable. Itdoesn't actually really matter what youuse. So just pick whatever makes senseto you, what you enjoy. Okay. So VS Codeworks very similarly because the two arevery heavily inspired by each other. Umon the lefth hand side we have the fileeditor. So right now I have theagents.mmd file open. Okay. So if I goover here you can see it's actually inthe root directory. So I'm going to givethat a click. That opens up theinstruction file. Obviously I'm thenfeeding in um you know some very simpleinformation here just saying run myUpwork scraper. It's actually gonethrough generated proposals pushed to aGoogle sheet. Same sort of idea. If Iopen up this Google sheet I haveinformation about specific Upwork jobs.This took a few moments which is why Ididn't do this in real time. Um in mycase I was running a really simpleworkflow. I didn't want to edit aworkflow here. or I actually just wantedto use one. And you'll see that there isa distinction between the building ofthe workflows and then the using of theworkflows. In my case, I'm now using aworkflow, not building it. Um, which iswhy I just had it say, "Hey, let's runthis thing." The color scheme isslightly different. It looks slightlydifferent. I'd say VS Code looks alittle bit older, of course. But themost important thing that I'll show youthat sort of distinguishes VS Code froma lot of things is just how big theirextension library is. They really dosupport a tremendous number ofextensions. If I just type the letter A,you'll see here that there are likehundreds of extensions that it opened.This is the search bar for all of theextensions. I could scroll down thisthing for hours and probably never runout of things. Hell, I could probably dothis for like the next two months orwhatever and then I'd never run out ofextensions. So, that's pretty cool.There's just a ton of different thingsyou could do depending on what you'redoing. There's code formatterers tochange like the colors and stuff likethat. Uh, you can kind of think of thisas like I don't know who here playsvideo games, but it's kind of likeSkyrim mods, Oblivion mods, you know,like you can just modify it to dowhatever the heck you want, which isreally awesome. Okay, you guys have nowseen anti-gravity and VS Code in action.Let's talk a little bit more about theworkspace itself. I've shown you guyshow to operate within a workspace, buthow do you actually set it up? Well,first thing is you have to obviouslycreate a workspace. That's really easy.Anytime you open one of these IDs forthe first time, the first thing it'llsay is, "Hey, you should create aworkspace." So, assuming you've donethat, now you're inside of theworkspace. What we have to do now is wehave to set up the folder structure thatour agent can understand and thennavigate. We also need to give it someinstructions that it knows how westructure the folder and why. And if youthink about what I'm doing with you guysand then what I did with the agent withthe agents.mmd file, I'm basicallygiving it a whole education as to why weare in the do framework, why we're usingthis to begin with. And I find that sortof context is really important. It'slike a training uh session for youragent. Get them up to speed. Have themunderstand the methodology and thephilosophy behind why you're using themin that way. And they'll typically worka lot better than if you just tried toraw dog it. So I think about this thesame as like setting up a desk for anemployee at your organization. They needto know where everything goes. They needto have like the base sort of things setup. They need to have the base foldersand so on and so forth. Then once you'vegiven them that structure, they canobviously excel within it. So I'm goingto cover a lot more about this in the dosection, but uh for now just know that awell organized workspace I wouldconsider essential. So what is theactual project structure? Well, let meshow it to you. We start off with theworkspace itself. And you can name theworkspace whatever you want. Nowunderneath the workspace, you then havetwo major folders. You have directivesover here. Then right over here, youalso have execution.Now, inside of directives, let me showyou guys what that would look like. Youhave a bunch of files. So, you wouldhave, for instance, scrape_leads.md.You might have another one, upworkapplybot.md.These are your highlevel instructionswhere all of the top information goes.you know like hey start the scrapingleads thing by asking the user whatleads they want to scrape right oncethey've supplied those leads uh thedirections to you then ask them whatplatform they want to use just some veryhighle stuff now underneath that as Imentioned we have the executions andthen we have the actual like um Pythonscripts that correspond to thedirectives so over here for instancewe'd have and let me just make thisreally really simple to see we'd havethings like uh appify which is aplatform scraperpy I underneath that we'd have I don'tknow Upworkscraperpy maybe underneath that we have upworkapplier or something like thatpy and what essentially occurs in yourdirectives is you just say somewherewithin it hey step three I want you tocall ampify scraper py it reads that inthe directive and then it just knowswhich execution to call I have somerecommendations here of course um usesubfolders for inputs outputs, prompts,and reference materials. So that is sortof what the directives and theexecutions are. But if you, let's say,have a bunch of files that you feed inroutinely as resources, you canabsolutely add a resources folder. Theonly two folders that I would considerrequired in the DO framework anyway arejust directives and executions. Anddepending on the framework, you know,people have different ideas about this,but you can add in whatever otherfolders you want. You could add aresources folder. A common folder to addis a TMP folder. That just stands fortemporary. So sometimes agents um needto create files temporarily to dothings. They use files like as likescratch pads. Uh my friend Gio yesterdaywas telling me about an experiment thatsomebody did where he had like a chatroom for agents.mmdwhere basically he had multiple agentsrun simultaneously and then add thingsto a chat room. I mean obviously theworld is your oyster here and I'm notgoing to try and force you in a specificway of being, but there are a variety ofother folders that I would probablyinclude as well. I'd include some clearnaming conventions so the agent knowswhat lives where. For instance, if uh mything scrapes leads, I would call itscrape underscore leads. I wouldn't callit like s_l with some naming convention.I mean, these character tokens arecheap, right? Be very descriptive withthe titles of your files. And then ifyou have any documentation like thehighle context and then you know likeyour agentsMD and so on and so forth, make sure toinclude that as well. Talked about thedirectives and execution folders. So I'mgoing to leave that. Um directivesgenerally holds things in markdown.That's important to understand, which isjust a way to, you know, um mark up texta little bit. An execution is typicallyin Python, although that depends. Andthis is just that simple separationbetween what you do and then how you doit. So the directives are what you doand then the execution scripts are howthe thing actually happens. I don't wantto beat a dead horse here. Um the numberone other thing that you guys reallyneed to understand is this idea of anenv file. So when you're working in anysort of programming environment,typically you don't want to store likepasswords and secrets and API keys inthe code itself. you want to store it ina separate area which um programmershave created a convention around calledyour env. That's just sort of like whereyou store all of your API keys, all ofyour credentials and so on and so forth.And the idea is instead of saying, "Hey,use this API key in your directive," youjust say, "Hey, grab all your API keysfrom your env." That way, logically, ifyou ever wanted to share your directiveslater on, you could do so really easy.You would just copy and paste them. AndI'm going to cover how to share and setup cloud-based instances later on. A lotof people ask me why these namingconventions exist, why an env.Some things in technology just are. Youever ask yourself why um JPEG files arecalled JPEG files? Well, it's becausethis is actually like an organization. Iforget what the name of the organizationis. It was like the journal for blahblah blah blah blah blah executivegroup, right? This is just a thing thathas occurred 50 years ago that we alljust must follow now. And if we changethe name, then other people won'tunderstand what they are. So it's justeasier to stick with the name is widelyrecognized by basically everybody. So wejust call these things and that's okay.Likewise there are some conventionsright now between the models themselves.So for instance um I talked about systemprompts things that you inject at thevery top of any model conversation andthere's a b a bunch of different onesright now. Claude.md corresponds toclaude. Gemini.mmd is for gemini.Curser.md is for curser. agents.m MD issort of like a general one that issupposed to be a fallback in case youdon't have this specific one. And youknow what I do? I just throw all ofthese in my main project route so thatwhatever model I use, I have the exactsame sort of thing. So I will copy thesame thing from agents MD to cloud MD toGemini. MD to cursor MD. Thisinteroperability is really really easy.And obviously these names matter. Justbecause somebody said, well, we shouldprobably have some configuration file.Why don't we just call it claude MD? Weuse capitals because that'll stand outand make it like hypersp specific anddifferentiable and then other peoplesort of went on that bandwagon andthat's how it is. If you upload agemini.mmd to claude then claude isn'tgoing to understand what that is.They're not going to automaticallyinsert it. But if you upload a claude.mdto claude it will. If you upload uh youknow agents.mmd or codecs or cursor orwhatever to your various models ofchoice it'll understand what's going on.The really cool thing is you just createthe structure one time and then theagent just works with it for everyproject going forward. Which is one ofthe reasons why I love this. Theinitialization is so easy that I nowdon't even tell people to initialize itthemselves. I just give the agents itemD file to anybody I want to set up andthen I just say hey have your model doit. Then they just go to their agent andthey say hey can you set up my workspaceaccording to this file and then it doesso automatically. How cool. I want youguys to know that as you get better andbetter with IDE, this feeling ofoverwhelm will decrease. But at thebeginning, it is totally normal to feeloverwhelmed with the menus and thepanels and the buttons and all thekeyboard shortcuts. Um, it's just like abeginner pilot looking at cockpitinstrumentation right now. I think Itold you guys that I was taking mypilot's license and it is it is reallyintimidating. This is the exact same waythat I tried to put myself in your guys'shoes when explaining this. I wishsomebody explained pilot instrumentationto me the same way I'm explaining IDinstrumentation to you. But you don'tneed to learn everything at once. Andhopefully it's clear, as long as youunderstand those three things, the fileexplorer on the lefth hand side, theeditor in the middle, and then the agentchat on the right hand side, you'realready 80% of the way there, and youcan build and use Agentic Workflows foryour own business. The goal isn't tomaster every feature here. It's just tobe comfortable enough that the IDdoesn't like slow you down. Okay, so letme show you how you can easily buildproposals and high-quality PDFs andvisual assets with Agentic Workflows.This is an example of a workflow that Iuse all the time in my day-to-daybusiness. So immediately underneath thisI have a sales call transcript.Essentially what we do is we feed inthese sales call transcripts and we justtell the model hey I want you togenerate a proposal with it. So what amI going to do? I will literally just saygenerate a proposal using the belowtranscript. Then I'm going to pressenter. What's going to happen is thismodel is going to immediately startlooking through the existing directiveswhich I'll talk a little bit about morelater in the course. It'll find contactdetails and everything that we need inorder to actually send the proposalbecause I removed the email from thisspecific one. I am going to supply justa demo email. What its reasoning isdoing is it's extracting the mainproblem areas, the main solution areas,the things that we talked about and alsothe pricing. Immediately afterwards,it's going to ask me for the emailaddress. This is a demo, so just useand I'm going to provide my own.And once it has this information, it canproceed and actually go through with thegeneration of the asset. So it's notformatting this in the way that I wantthe proposals to look like. Keep in mindthat I had no real work here aside fromcopying my transcript over. And eventhat is unnecessary. I could have justused it directly from the transcriptprovider Fireflies, but I wanted to showyou guys how malleable this sort ofthing is. Whether you copy and paste itin, whether you put an API call to likesome transcript endpoint in, uh, youknow, it works the same regardless.Great. And it's finished. Now it's goingto do is send a quick follow-up email.And the email was sent successfully justusing an MCP server that I set up. Andnow we get a summary as well as a linkso we can view it directly.When I open this up, you can see theproposal document right here. Itincludes um you know your problem areas.Number one, your revenue isunpredictable because you're relying onreferrals and sporadic outreach. Onemonth may bring three clients, the nextmonth brings zero. The feast or faminecycle makes it impossible to planhiring, delivery capacity, or growthinvestments with any confidence. This isall stuff that the AI came up with. Youknow, I chatted about this briefly onthe transcript, of course, but umeverything else here, the tone of voiceand everything like that was just a verysimple highle prompt instruction as wellas a brief example. The actual workflowhere took me maybe 15 minutes to set upand to end. And as you can see now withjust a prompt, uh I can generatehigh-quality sales proposals withinseconds. So, this is what you are goingto learn how to do. You're going tolearn how to set up workflows, not onlyto do things like generate proposals,although I absolutely recommend you doif you're in any sort of servicebusiness where you have sales calls, butwe can do more or less anything. I'veset up dozens of workflows to automatemany of the mundane routine businesstasks that I have. Things that just afew years ago, people probably wouldhave raised an eyebrow at you andthought you were crazy for suggestingyou can automate something like this.All right, it's now time to talk aboutDO directive orchestration andexecution. So up at the very top ofthis, you can see that I've writtenthree layer software architecture.That's because that's what DO is. It isa three layer system that we're wrappingaround an AI agent in order to helpconstrain its outputs and take it fromlike a probabilistic thing which is allover the place to something verystandard, consistent, and deterministic.So at the very top of this system isyour directive layer. Of course, this isgoing to include workflows and SOPs. Andby the way, if you don't know what SOPmeans, that stands for standardoperating procedure. And standardoperating procedures are very common inany sort of business, which is one ofthe reasons why I like Do so muchbecause all you really do is just importyour standard operating procedures inwhatever business you are working with,whether it's your own or business you'rehelping. Then you just say, "Hey, turnthis into a directive as per do." Andboom, you're done. You now have like anAI agent that just does tasks that yourcompany needs to do. So up at the verytop kind of the first layer is thisdirective. Now underneath you have theorchestration layer. Your orchestrationlayer is your AI agent or AI employee ina way. And you'll also see that like notonly did I put a little robot face here,but I also put a person. And the reasonwhy is because it's actually prettysimilar to how most organizations work.You have some highle directives. Thosedirectives are read by employees or youknow other people in the business. Andthen what they do is they just makedecisions surrounding how to accomplishthe highle uh directives. This is wherethey perform coordination, taskmanagement, and stuff like that. Andwhat they do with those decisions isthey call or use tools. Now, if you'rean AI agent, you're going to be usingmostly software tools as expected. Hell,if you're an employee, for the mostpart, you're going to be using softwaretools. Now, think of the tools that anaverage employee uses in anyorganization. We're using Google Sheets,Excel. We're using Microsoft Word, Docs,right? All of those things are actuallyanalogous to tools that we use within anorganization to accomplish things. It'sthe same thing that our AI does withtools that it creates. Okay. So down atthe very bottom here, you have theexecution layer and this contains tools.It contains Python scripts and so on andso forth. It's primarily responsible foraction and output. I don't want peoplehere to be really scared or worriedabout DO. It's a lot simpler than youmay think. The thing is we just need toframe it as like a three- layer softwarearchitecture in order for the rest ofthe course to make sense. So to beclear, do is literally just a folderstructure plus a system prompt. Andpretty much all frameworks out thereright now for aentic workflows are allwe do is we just set up a folder calleddirectives and a folder calledexecution. Then we add some files likean agents MD, cloud MD or Gemini MD asour prompt and then you know we mightadd avi keys etc. Again, the API uh envis literally just a convention that, youknow, some programmers made forever ago.So, it's great for beginners primarilybecause it's intuitive and it's reallyeasy to understand. And it's also reallycool for businesses because we can justcopy and paste SOPs directly in like uma company that I'm currently workingwith right now does marketingspecifically for dental practices andthey do about $2 million a year. Andwhen I introduced agentic workflows tothem, you know, I'm kind of like in ameeting I met with the director and Istarted discussing how, hey, you know, Ithink we could probably automate acouple of the previously non-automatabletasks with aentic workflows, he's like,okay, so how do we start? And I was justlike, well, you guys got a knowledgebase. Why don't I just feed the entireknowledge base in and see what happens?And within 15 minutes or so, we hadactually like procedurally turned mostof those things into agentic workflows.We had all of the the API keys. We hadeverything that we needed preset whichwas lucky cuz a lot of the time you haveto jump around and you know finaglevarious services. Um but yeah within 15minutes we had turned this into doughand we now have a workspace that youknow the director managers and myselfcan use to do like 90% of theeconomically valuable work. Is thatgoing to lead to some headcountreduction? Probably. I mean when youautomate 90% of 10,000 people's rolesobviously you need to take a step backand start doing more management stylestuff than actually getting your handsdirty. Uh but yeah, that's just a verysimple and straightforward example ofsomething that I have actually just justnow done. The reason why dough worksreally is because of the wholestochasticity idea. And stochasticityjust for anybody that's like why theheck is Nick using all of these crazywords. It's just the way to formalizerandomness I would say. I mean it's alittle bit different but for for ourpurposes you could use that. So it justtakes this big like if this is like thetotal range of possible outcomes. Okay?You know you could do uh this outcomeyou could do outcome somewhere here. Youcould do this outcome you could dooutcome somewhere here. All DO does isit just reduces this so that the rangeof possible outcomes is a lot morenarrow. And so, you know, for the mostpart, we're operating within a verytightly bounded range of possibleoutcomes for our system. It can do thisor it could do that. And it's very, verysimilar uh because we do this throughthe separation of concerns. It's just alot more reliable. This lets me get to 2to 3% error rates on a lot of businessfunctions. That dental uh marketingbusiness that I was talking aboutearlier is a great example of that. It'sreally not more complicated than that. Ialso like to think of it as I don't knowif you guys have ever gone bowling orsomething, but uh this is going to be mycrappybowling pin thing. Um you know,typically the way that bowling works isyou have gutters on the side and youknow if your bowling ball is not verygood or if you are not very good atbowling I should say. Um you know like alot of the time it's going to veer offinto the gutter and then you're screwed,right? So as a total newbie, one thingthat I really like doing is I likeasking them to set up the guardrails. SoI say, "Hey, do you mind setting up theguardrails for me?" Then they set upthese little guardrails that basicallyprevent the ball from um landing. And sowhat ends up happening is I basicallywill bump off of a wall and then I stillget to hit some pins. That's all doughis for agents. It just constrains it. Wejust give it some guardrails and then wesignificantly improve the probabilitythat it does something that we want. SoI'm going to go very into detail hereand be very comprehensive because thisis the framework we're using for therest of the program. You've already seenme use this a bunch through the variousdemos that I've I've created. Now I justwant to provide context for everything.If some of this stuff is repetitive orif you think you already know thisstuff, that's okay. I would recommendjust watching it regardless. Try andinternalize as much of this as possiblebecause this is the same idea that anyframework uh is going to use. So thedirectives obviously are SOPs written innatural language as markdown files.Markdown is very important. File endingall will end in MD. That's obviouslystands for markdown. Uh and generallyspeaking, this is just a sort of likemarkup language.A markup language just formats text. Sothis is plain text for instance, right?First SOPs are written in naturallanguages as markdown files. Uh uh uhyou know marked up version of this mightbe first. Let me make sure I got thisright. You had some stars. SOPs and nowthis is bolded text are written in youknow natural language. And so now it'slike quoted text as markdown files. Whatwe're doing is we're taking text andthen we're just marking it up. We'readding some structure to it basically.Um markdown is just one way to do so.So, for instance, this on a page isactually markdown underneath it. Um, Iused markdown to help uh I used AIactually to help me convert a big17,000word document into um a slideshow.And so, this was actually a heading. Andthe way you demonstrate or the way youuse headings in markdown is you uselittle number signs. So, for instance,if I wanted to write this big heading, Iactually would have written this layerone, you know, directives.Underneath that, you have bullet points.Bullet points in markdown are littlestars. So star first, you know, s os arewritten, right? So all of these littlecharacters are just a ways that you addformatting to text. And the reason whywe do this for our AI agent fordirectives is because formatting allowsus to add a lot moreformational contentto the text. It also allows us tostructure things. So it's not just onegiant massive text dump. We add we getto add new lines. We get to add varioustabs for indentation. Basically, we justadd a bunch of structure to things asopposed to it just being this, right? webasically convert it into something thatis a lot more interesting. We havespaces and we have little bullet pointsand you know the structure of the textkind of looks like a face funnily enoughyou know allows us to impart a lot moreinformation per token and then it's alsotoken efficient. There are othermarkdown languages as well. One thatyou've probably heard of before is ormarkup languages as well. One thatyou've probably heard before is calledHTML. With HTML the way you mark thingsup is you use a variety of tags. And sotags are these little number signthings. If I were to try and write thesame thing in tags, it would besignificantly less token efficient andso I'd actually have written way more umtotal tokens, which obviously would haveconsumed a lot of my context. So insteadof that, okay, instead of the HTML body,H1 layer 1 directives, H1, whatever, allwe're doing to to accomplish the samething is I literally just do a numbersign. Obviously, this is one character.That's like, I don't know, however manycharacters, way more, obviously, to justum demonstrate some some structurethere. Okay, so that's markdown. Now,these define your goals. They defineyour inputs. They define your tools,your expected outputs, edge cases, andultimately a lot of other things thatyou can define. I don't proclaim to havethe perfect directive creationstructure. I'm going to show you my owndirective creation structures, and thattends to include all these things, butum in general, you just want to providehighle overviews. Now, the way I writethese or the way I have AI write theseis I write them like I'd instruct acompetent employee. I would make themclear, but I would not micromanage. Andreally, AI does this for you. All I dois I describe the what and the highlehows of my task in markdown and then Ijust trust the agent to figure out therest. I'm going to remember to drinkthis tea cuz it is going to get cooled.Damn, that stuff's good. Holy.So directives obviously live in thedirectives folder in our workspace. Theway I separate each directive is as aseparate markdown file that covers oneworkflow or one capability. Forinstance, I would have a scrape_leads.MD file, but I wouldn't have a runbusiness MD file just because, and maybewe'll get to this point later, I don'tknow, but um just because this is a lotthat we're asking from the model. And sothe model typically starts looping overand and doesn't really understandvarious edge cases and stuff like that.I constrain these into sort of likemodular directives. And then later on Ican actually group them with umbrelladirectives. Not umbrella to the pointwhere it's literally like hey run my ownbusiness but umbrella to the point whereit's like hey you know run onboardingflow or something like that. So someexamples lead scraping MD proposalgeneration MD email_enrichment MD and soon and so forth. I highly recommendmaking the names descriptive. Logicallyspeaking these are the only things thatuh descriptives descriptive um this isthe only way that like the model cantell kind of what's going on here. Youcan of course add um some other forms ofstructure to the text. You could addwhat's called YAML front matter, whichI'll talk about a little bit more lateron. But for the most part, like themodel just consumes the name and thenuses that name to determine whichworkflows it's going to use. If I say,"Hey, I want you to scrape some leads,"obviously it's going to do the leadscraping one, right? But if I justcalled that L_S with somenaming convention, it would have no ideawhat it's doing. So very important hereto just like be descriptive. Don't useacronyms. Don't use anything that likecomplexifies the names of the directivesif you want the agent to be able to useit as best it can.Very important point is that directivescontain no code at all. There is zerocode within a directive. All directivesare are natural language instructions.We don't have any code, no executables.And really there's there's very littletechnical here. You know, I may [snorts]include some URLs. I say, "Hey, go tothis URL in order to get informationabout this." But I'll never actuallyinclude any sort of code or executable.The reason why is because we want thesedirectives to remain readable by allhumans within the organization. And theyshould just make sense to all peoplewithin the company. If your directivesare to the point where they're sotechnical and confusing that like any,you know, average low-level staff memberwithin the business could not read itand understand what's going on, you'vescrewed up. The whole idea is that youwant to lower the barriers to entry sothat anybody in your company that issystem-minded, they don't have to betechnical, but they have to know systemscan actually just improve things. You belike, "Oh, um, yeah, take a look at thatdirective and let me know if there'sanything that you think I'm missing."And then they just read it naturallanguage and they go, "Oh, you know, uh,sometimes customers ask for X, Y, and Z.We should probably add some logicthere." Right? You want that person toactually be able to substantiallyimprove the organization. You don't justwant it to be like a black box. Becausethat's one of the main benefits of this,right? We're making this really, reallyinterpretable. removing bottlenecksacross the organization to have peoplesee and understand how uh the systems inthe business work. Okay, so next upwe're going to talk about layer twowhich is orchestration. This is kind oflike the who. Um orchestration isbasically a competent project manager.So a good project manager in businessrarely actually does the hands-on workthemselves. They're basically just likea nexus and that nexus takes informationin and then it kind of puts informationout. And you know this might be personone, person two, person three. They'regoing to take inputs from these threesources. They're going to do somethinking and then they're ultimatelygoing to go and delegate some additionalwork to person 1 2 and 3. So they makerouting decisions at the end of the dayand they take advantage of availabletools. If you think about old school nocode flows like NAD and stuff like that,this job was basically done by you andyou would orchestrate it once when youbuilt the flow. You'd say this node goesto this node, this node goes to thatnode, that node goes to that node, thatnode goes to that node. Maybe this thingloops around a little bit and theneventually we, you know, do this node orsomething like that. This is a decisionthat you would make once when you builtthe flow. What's really cool is theorchestrator basically just does all ofthat on its own. So if I just show youguys as like a practical example here,the orchestratorinstead just compiles all the tools andthen at runtime it decides, hey, youknow, I actually want to do this andthen this is actually going to go overhere. After that's done, it's going togo over here. That's going to go overhere. We're going to loop back threetimes over there, start over here, andthen we'll finish over here. And becauseit's flexible, it can adapt to anysituation at the time that you areasking it to do things. You just give ittools and then it just does all therouting and stuff like that for you.Obviously, we want to provide at leastsome structure, right? We don't want tojust give it a bunch of tools and say,"Hey, figure it out." That's what ourdirectives are for. So, it does ensurework gets completed according to those.But the flexibility here allows it todeal with situations like when somethingbreaks, how to diagnose the problemrather than just crash and and you know,404. And then later on if you use subaents like I recommend throughout theprogram um we're going to have like adocument flow that not only will gothrough see uh workflow end to end ifthere's any problems it'll diagnose itand so on and so forth it'll actually goback and it'll document for the purposesor rather the benefits of futureinstances of the agent um you knowchanges that it made things that youknow the agent needs to keep in mindlogical errors that you know maybeagents typically make to avoid APIexceptions that don't really make senseor work and so on and so forth.All right, layer three is execution,which is the how. So, logicallyspeaking, execution is deterministic.It's very modular. It's verystraightforward. Doesn't mean it'ssimple. The execution scripts are storedin the execution folder. I typicallyjust use Python for this. Why? Cuz theprogramming language doesn't reallymatter to be honest. And when you havePython, like at any point in time, ifyou needed to, you could convert thisinto whatever the heck you want. You canconvert Python into Rust, you canconvert uh into Node, you could convertit into Java. I mean, like whateverlanguage you want really. These thingsare all [snorts] essentially justconversions of natural language at thispoint. Anyway, each script handles justone thing. So, one job or one task. I'llgive you an example just using what wetalked about earlier. So, if I have likea scrape leads directive, this is likethe highle kind of workflow. Right? Now,this workflow isn't just going to haveone, you know, scrape_leads.pyscript. This might actually havemultiple different scripts. This mighthave uh you know depending on whateveryou're using might be likescrape_appify.pymight have like a upload to gsh sheet.pyhell might even have if you have to makesome interface or something presentto user.py.But the point is these things all justdo one thing really well. So this onescrapes appy really well. This oneuploads to a Google sheet really well.This one presents to a user really well.These are just like things that you knowyou like like tools that an agent canuse in order to do some task. So whathappens is because they'redeterministic, they do the exact samething every time when given the sameinputs. So like if I were just to Idon't know do this raw dog it and justfeed in some prompt to my agent and say,"Hey, I want you to scrape aify for X,Y, and Z." And I had no tools and nodirectives, you know, it wouldeventually figure out what I wanted todo. But if I did it 10 times, you know,on route one, it would go from hereto here and then on route two would feedback and route three, you know, we justhave fundamentally different umexecutions every single time, right?When you have the exact same inputsprovided to the exact same executionscripts and then you get the exact sameoutputs, it becomes very obvious likewhat the model needs to do and youheavily constrain the inputs and outputsuh and you essentially just provide asimple rule. Hey, you know, if I say,hey, scrape appy or whatever, uh, forTexas, uh, for 200 people, it'llactually feed that in as a parameter tothe scrape appy. It'll actually likehave dash dash, you know, locationequals Texas, for instance, and then d-um, you know, amount equals 200 orsomething like that. And because we arebeing extraordinarily explicit here,there's never any misunderstanding. So,the agent just always knows what toexpect. So, do you. Another example herewould be a scrape_apollo. That wouldscrape leads from Apollo, but maybe youalso enrich the leads. Well, now youhave enrich_clearb. Maybe that enrichescompany data via that tool. Maybe youthen have a send email that sends emailsvia specified service and then a createpandock which generates proposals. Whatyou'll quickly realize is when you builda sufficient enough library of tools,you can have multiple directivesreference the same tools. Like forinstance the send email pi maybe as partof my scrape_leads.mmddirective I always send an email with asummary of the leads right so maybe youknow somewhere here I say hey you knowgenerate the the leads scrape it withapolla and then send an email well whatabout the create panadoc maybe in thecreate panadoc uh maybe I have like agenerate proposal MD well the generateproposal MD um also needs to send anemail what's really cool is when youdefine these atomic functions Both ofthese can call the same executionscript. And because we've optimized thehell out of these execution scripts byrerunning and self- annealing and allthis stuff, which we'll talk aboutlater, um, this is really robust and itbasically like works every time.Execution scripts are not AI for themost part. They don't hallucinate. Theydon't make things up. They basicallyeither work correctly or they throw aclear error. So there's no ambiguity.There's a programming term here calledunit testing, which basically means likeyou can like isolate this down to itsbarebones function, just its input andits output, and you can just test that.You can version control them. So you canhave like a log of updates and you canoptimize them independently. You couldstart with like um some sort of serialflow where it goes one and then it doestwo and then it does three and thenafter a few runs maybe it'll come upwith a more efficient way to do things.For instance, maybe it'll split it andit'll parallelize one, two, and threeand then recombine the inputs orsomething for some API call. Uh theoptions here are virtually limitless. Umbut because they don't guess orhallucinate, you can just incrementallyimprove these things over time. I hadthis question come up the other day, soI figured I'd answer it in this course.Um, nothing says you can't actually useAI inside of your scripts. For instance,you might have a thing called processleads with,you know, claude. py that, uh, I don'tknow, it feeds in a bunch of leads orgrabs the leads from like a Google docor something or Google sheet and then itjust like passes them all through Claudeand has you tell something about eachlead. I don't know, whatever the heckyou want this to say. Well, you canstill use AI to do that for you, right?It's still passing it into Claude. It'sjust doing so in a much more predictableway because you are defining it within asingle workflow as opposed to just likegiving it full orchestrator access. Likefor instance, your process leaves withClaude would probably start by likereading the sheet, right? That'sprobably what's going to happen underthe hood. After you read the sheet,it'll then um send each row to Claude.Uh when you do that, you'll have like aspecific prompt that is like deter, it'snot deterministic, but it's asdeterministic as possible. You know, youset the temperature really low. It likeexpects the same outputs for the sameinputs and so on and so forth. Afteryou're done with that, maybe you likeadd updateto sheet or something. Um so you cancall, you know, open AI anthropic Googleat your whims. I do it all the timewithin my flows and actually is a prettybig chunk of how I do things. I alsocall like neural networks and stuff likethat. I use various libraries. Uh youdon't have to just you know do it allwith old school Python automation. Iguess the point that I'm trying to makeis just make these execution scriptsvery atomic. Make them do one thing andjust make them as deterministic aspossible. Um this will significantlyimprove the quality of your end result.So why does this do model work? It worksbecause it plays to everybody'sstrengths. When you do not constrain theoutputs of LLMs, they're reallyunpredictable, right? They'll tryanything and when they fail, they failspectacularly. And it might be like theywork 80% of the time, but the 20% of thetime they don't. They will like blow upa building or something. Uh, pre-builttools replace the construction of toolson the fly. Because the LLM is runningpre-built tools, it doesn't have to makethem from scratch every time, whichreduces the total number of steps thatyou have to take to get there. A reallysimple analogy for this is imagine ifyou just gave somebody a recipe versusasking them to invent a new dish everytime. Like if I just said, hey, can youmake that paella recipe that you've beenmaking me recently? The likelihood thatI'm going to get the PA recipe I want isprobably a lot higher than if I justhave it, you know, go off the cuff everysingle time. it will know the flavoring,the ratio of ingredients I like, thevarious steps that it takes, how to putthe muscles in, I don't know, just tonsof stuff. Whereas, you know, every timeit invents this new dish, this new pa of3.0, obviously, it's just like going offof its own biases and randomness at thatparticular moment. So, in addition todirectives and executions, we also havetwo essential configuration files. Andit's actually in practice a little morethan two, but I just call it two becauseit's a system prompt and then it's anenv. um agents.mmd contain theinstructions injected at the start ofevery conversation with theorchestrator. Now these are namedaccording to your um ID environment. Sothis could be cloudMD, gemini.mmd or itcould be whatever the heck it it asksfor cursor.mmd whatnot. Um I would justalways have like all of thesesimultaneously. The reason why isbecause if you just have all of themsimultaneously you can just like moveinto any new IDE or any new agent or anynew model and it'll just likeimmediately uh understand what you'resaying. So in this way you couldtheoretically have like you know ratelimits for your Gemini model um and thenrate limits for your claude model andthen rate limits for your open AI modeland you just open all three of them intabs and just have them all work onthings to minimize the probability ofyou running over anything. Most modelsat this point are pretty similar. We'vekind of converged to really reallysimilar accuracy ratings and scores onstuff. So aside from preference andstuff, this is how you keep those costslow. In addition, your env file is whereyou store all your API keys and thenyour credentials. Um, what this ends uplooking like for instance is just usingthat claude example earlier, uh, if wewant AI to do something, we wouldactually have claude or rather anthropicAPI_keyand then you just have like the the keyitself right over here. Then over hereyou'd have like open AIAPI_key.Then you'd actually store that key overhere as well. And you just like dumpthis. It would be a massive list of justall of like the credentials and keysthat you'd ever want. your executionscripts instead of having to hardcodethe key would just say, "Hey, go intoENV and then find it instead." Andthere's just like very simple programsthat do that sort of thing for you. Justso we're all on the same page, whatagents MD actually does is it acts asyour persistent context. You inject thisautomatically every single time at thebeginning of a session, so you justdon't ever have to repeat yourself. Italso explains the do framework structureto the orchestrator. So everything thatI've done here, we are basically goingto turn into an agents.mmd file and thenjust give to the orchestrator so itunderstands what is going on. we'regoing to give it to our agent and belike, "Hey, make sure to do it this waybecause it's reliable and becauseexecution scripts are prettydeterministic and so on and so forth."So, it's really meta, right? Likeeverything I'm telling you right now,we're just going to tell to the agent.We're just going to do it in a very likecontext compressed way. This will alsodefine the error handling behavior. Theagent does not spiral when somethingbreaks. And then obviously, what'sreally cool is you can actually justmake your agents.mmd better and betterand better. Like I find uh routine edgecases that I didn't handle for with myagents MD probably like once a week andthen I just like add a line to it andthen the next time like my model justdoesn't make that mistake. I did notalways self anneal for instance I justrealized that huh there's somesituations where my model solves theproblem itself and then other situationswhere it comes to me for help why don'tI just make it explicit hey man I wantyou to solve the problem for yourselfthat is what resulted in the selfannealing concept all right so let'sactually go and have AI set up directiveorchestration execution for us I'll showyou guys the system promptsagents.mmdenvand everything okay so let's actuallybuild our very first real agenticworkflow together the first thing youneed to do is open up your IDEIn my case, I'll be using Visual StudioCode for this demo. Not because I thinkit's better than anti-gravity oranything like that, but just because Iwant to show you guys you could usewhatever the heck you want. You know,it's all interoperable these days.Anyway, the very first thing we need todo is we need to create a new workspace.So, I'm going to head over here to thetop lefthand corner and then I'm goingto sayopen folder. From here, I'm going to atleast on a Mac, click the new folderbutton. Then I'm going to say YouTubeworkspace. do then going to create. OnceI'm in it, I'll click open.Next up, what we have to do is we haveto create our system prompt file. I geta lot more into detail about theselater, but for now, what I'll do is I'llopen up this file. I'm going to typeclaude.md.I'm going to paste in one of theexamples that you can get in the toplink in the description. So, that isthis my system prompt. Then going tosave. The next thing I'm going to do,I'm assuming you've already downloadedClaude Code. If not, you head over hereto extensions, type, you know, in thiscase, Claude Code, but realistically,whatever model you want. Give thatbutton a click, click install over here.You're going to need to sign in and allthat stuff. But assuming you have yourown key, and assuming you have your ownum account set up on at least, you know,a $10 or $20 a month plan, you're good.I'm then going to go to the top righthand corner here, click this littleclaude code button, and now I'm justgoing to move back a bit and startasking it to help me. Now, what I wantto do is I want to build a simple emailonboarding flow. Essentially, whensomebody joins my organization as aclient, I want to send them a briefemail saying, "Hey, thanks so much forjoining. Really looking forward tohaving you." And you know, here's a linkto a kickoff call that you can schedule.This is a super easy and straightforwardthing to do. And you can of course setup systems to do this outside of Agenticworkflows. I'm just showing you thisbecause I think it's probably the moststraightforward example to show you howto chain together three or four thingsthat I can think of. We'll progressivelydesign more and more complex workflows.But for now, what I need to do is I needto talk to this model. I need to have itdo things. But if you notice on thelefth hand side, I don't actually havelike the workspace itself set up. I justhave this claw.md. So the very firstthing I'm going to do is down here, I'mjust going to go bypass permissions.Whatever model you're using probably hasa bypass permissions mode nowadays. AndI'm I'm just going to say set up myworkspace in accordance with claw.md.I mean, I could have said whatever. Icould have said just set my workspace upor something like that. What it's goingto do is it's going to read throughcloud.mmd. It's going to understand howthis works and it's going to create afull directory structure based off that.now. Okay, it's adding a bunch ofinformation web hook.m MDs talking aboutthe deterministic and execution layersand so on and so forth. Now it's goingto go through and verify the finalsetup. And now it's giving me a briefsummary. Okay, great. Now that I havethis set up, I want to show you guys howeasy it is to actually build thisworkflow. All I'm going to do is I'mgoing to give it a very highle naturallanguage instruction of what I want.Hey, I'd like to build a briefonboarding workflow. Basically, I wantto be able to tell you onboard clientemail@acample.comand then have you send an email to thatnew client that introduces them to ourcompany, gives them some background, andthen invites them to a kickoff callusing a calendar link.Then going to press enter. You'll noticethat because I'm using my voice,sometimes this text is a little bitmisformatted. That's okay. Doesn't needto be perfect. This model is smartenough to understand what's going on.>> [snorts]>> It's going to ask me some questions.What should I use to send emails? SMTP,resend, send grid, whatever. What's thecompany info? What's the URL? Now, Ineed to obviously go and I need to getthis information, come back to it. But Ishould know that I don't even need tolike know for sure. Hopefully, it'sclear. I just want to like send throughmy own Gmail account. So, I'm just goingto say, sorry, I don't know what any ofthat means. I just want to send awelcome email from my Gmail account.And I'm going to provide it my own.com.For company info, I'll just give you abrief list of bullet points whenever yousend the email.And underneath for the calendar link,just use an example calendar link fornow.Cool. I'm giving it some highleinstructions here, and it's going tohelp and walk both of us through thefinishing of this workflow.The first thing it will do is if we openup our directives folder, it'll buildthis onboard_client.mmd.If I go up here, you can see there's nowan onboardclient.mdwith a bunch of highle directives withthis information.Now, you'll see that it's installingdependencies and so on and so forth. Itdoesn't fully understand what to dohere, but that's okay. Okay, what it'sdoing next is it's walking us through aone-time setup with our Googleinformation. So, what I'm going to do isI'm just going to create a new appspecific password. Let's just call itYouTube example. And then going to goover here. I'm going to paste this in.This is now going to take the apppassword and actually use it to updatethe env file.Says the app password saved. We're allset. First, I'm going to ask it whatdoes the onboarding email look like.This looks pretty reasonable. I'm nowgoing to go through and then edit thistemplate so that we could send what Ithink is a higher quality template everytime. Okay, just spend a few momentshere putting together this onboardingemail. It says, "Hi, name. Thanks forchoosing to work with us. We're excitedto have you on board." Here's whathappens next. We hop on a quick kickoffcall to align on goals. You meet theteam and get synced with your projectmanager. From there, we'll map out aplan tailored to you and finally receivedaily updates when the project iscomplete. Book your kickoff call here.Very straightforward template. Ibasically just want this to send everysingle time. So, it's just going to goand update the directive and presumablythe execution to always reflect thisinformation. And then finally, I'm justgoing to say onboard nick atnickleclick.ai.And at the end of it, you could see wenow have a really well formatted andsimple onboarding email. This wholeworkflow only took me a few seconds toput together. Hopefully you guys see thepower for nontechnical people, evenpeople that don't understand what appkeys are or env tokens or anything likethat to actually meaningfully integratewith software that we're using. Allright, so now that we've seen a littlebit about how to set things up, how doyou actually go and create like reallygood directives? Well, you need fourthings. You need a clear objectivestatement, aka what this directive does.You need some form of inputspecification, so what data does theagent need to actually get started? Youneed a step-by-step process, which is asequence of operations, scripts, andexpected outputs in natural language.And then you also need a definition ofdone. So that's quality criteria. How doyou know that the agent has actuallysucceeded? It needs to be able to gradeitself based on its output. Forinstance, like you'll know you'resuccessful when you have a Google Sheetlink URL with at least 100 rows filledin, something like that. You shouldalso, of course, include edge cases. Soany known exceptions, if there arequirks with an API, if there are thingsthat come out as error codes that shouldnot come out as error codes, if theyhave common failure modes, you shouldactually include all of that in thedirective. Uh you should also describefallback behavior like, hey, if theApollo scraper we're using fails, trythe instantly lead uh enrichment toolinstead. And unlike old automations, youdon't have to like build this massivecomplicated error handling function.Unlike naden or make.com or any of thesevisual coding tools, you don't actuallyhave to go through and like create theseerror handling flows. You you just addone line and you're like, "Hey, if thishappens, then do this." And it's so muchsimpler. It also includes some sort ofinstructions saying what to return ifeverything fails gracefully. Like a lotof um systems do fail really gracefully.They don't even really tell you thatthey fail. If you expect a 100 leads topop up or 100 YouTube videos to comefrom your YouTube video scraper orwhatever, you know, like one will uhit'll technically have done socorrectly, but you know, nothing willhave errored out. So there's no realbuilt-in way for the model to knowunless you make it hyper explicit whathappens if things go to plan. That's whyyou need a definition of done. And thenyou also need something to say like,hey, if this does fail gracefully, ifwe're under 100 records, let's say ifthat's our minimum, um, rerun it overand over and over again with widerfilters until we get to 100. don'treturn this to the user until we have atleast whatever he put in. All right, formy next system, I basically want tobuild a CRM manager for ClickUp. ClickUpis one of many CRM tools that you coulduse. I really like it because I thinkit's simple, it's fast, and then itincludes a bunch of functionality thatweaves together different tools like ithas built-in messaging. Um, it obviouslyhas documents. I could store myknowledge bases in here and so on and soforth. But I want you to know thespecific tool doesn't really matter atall. You can build this sort of thingout in basically any CRM so long as ithas the ability to connect via API andMCP and that sort of stuff. So basicallywhat I have here is I have a reallysimple CRM setup called templatecreative agency. I'm going to pretendI'm a creative agency here. You can seethere's a sales pipeline. Inside of thesales pipeline, I have people like NickSarif and Peter Jackson and Peter Smith,Peter Jackson, Sally Lozen, her lastname's Lozen, Koth Arllan, and so on andso forth. Basically stored um on thiscool little table. And what happens likeany CRM is people come in through thisintake stage likeBast Sarif and then um essentially theyare assigned a status. Then as they areupdated, I move them to things likemeeting booked and then proposal sentand close lost or closed one. Uhdepending on whether or not they acceptthe contract. However, I don't reallywant to interact with it manuallyanymore. I think it'd be really cool ifI could weave this into other workflowslike our onboarding workflow that wemade earlier. So, how do I do this? I'mjust going to ask it to build this forme. I'd like you to be a wrapper aroundmy ClickUp CRM. I want to be able to askyou to do anything inside of ClickUp,then have you automate the process forme. This will also allow us to connectto other workflows that we build aroundmy agency. All of the CRM information isstored inside of theand let me head back over here and let'ssee what it's called. Template creativeagency space.Give me three ways we could do this.Okay, it's now going to create meeverything that I need. The first optionis a direct script library. It'll createa set of execution scripts for commonClickUp operations with a masterdirective that routes requests. That'spretty cool. I would have to invoke itevery time. Then there's some sort ofconversational idea. Then there's also aweb hook bridge. I like the idea ofnumber one. I want to see if there's asimpler way to do this. Is there anysimpler way to do this? Like is there anMCP or just anything that wouldn'trequire us building a specific step forevery request?It's going to go through and reasonfirst. So, it's going to check to seewhether or not there is anything outthere that would allow us to do thismore easily. What it's doing here isit's using a web search sub agent.Believe it or not, we're going to talk alot more about sub agents later, but subaents have pros and cons. When you usesub agents, things typically take a lotlonger to finish, but the pro is youisolate the context. And um what thatmeans is you just don't need to worryabout inserting all this stuff into themain flow. Cool. So, this is sort ofwhat I wanted to do initially. kind ofcheating here, but I know MCP is just asimple and easy way that I could buildsomething like this. And I'll show youguys more about this later. But as wesee here, there's an official and thenthere's also a nonofficial one. What I'mgoing to do is I'll say, "Hey, let's dothe official. How do I get my APItoken?"Okay, it's giving me some instructionshere. So, I'm going to head over here. Ijust need to regenerate this API token.So, first I have to put my password in.Just bear with me.Next, I'm going to copy this token over.And then I'm just going to head overhere and paste it. One thing that you'llfind that models do pretty often is, andI don't know if this is because theywant to conserve on their own tokenusage or something, instead of justdoing the thing for you, often timesthey will say, "Hey, I'm going to findinformation on how you can do thething." What is super super powerful isjust to say, "Okay, great. Do it. Lookslike we need some more informationhere." So, we need to go to ClickUp inour browser, look at the URL, and thenget the team ID.I see it right over there. Let me justpaste it in. Okay. And now all I need todo is just restart Claude Code. So, letme click this little X, head over hereagain. I double tap on the page in orderto create that new file.Okay. And now I have an MCP. So, let mejust give that a click. When you typeback SLMCP, you can now see the MCPservers you have. and I'll say,"Awesome. Can you create a new recordfor me?"So, because this is an MCP, it's like ageneral solution. It's not a specificsolution. We need to insert someinformation about this. So, what type ofrecord? Where should it go? I'd like youto act essentially as my ClickUpwrapper.Keep in mind that this is a newinstance. So, I need to provide it somehighle instructions. again.So all conversations are going to berelated to that space.I'd like you to store this informationsomewhere. That way the next time I askyou to do this, you'll do it the firsttime.Go and learn about the space first.New lead, Peter Rockwell.Okay. And now what it's doing when I saynew lead Peter Rockwell, it is creatinga lead in that space. Prettystraightforward. Let's go check and makesure that it's good. And as you can seehere, we now have a meeting URL link aswell as a status of meeting booked.Hopefully, it's clear. I could talk allday about this and give this all of theinformation that I want in order to haveit, you know, manage my uh ClickUp CRMfor me. So, that's one way to do so withan MCP, which is really straightforwardand it's super simple. Let me show youanother way we can do this just usinglike the ClickUp API instead. So I'mjust going to exit out of this and thencreate a new cloud code instance. I'mgoing to say, hey, can you uninstall theClickUp MCP and remove anything in ourenvironment that has to do with ClickUp?I'm doing a demo.Then going to bypass permissions. So Ijust don't have to worry about it. It'sjust going to do it all for me. Hey, I'dlike you to build a series of ClickUpdirectives so that I could automate theprocess of adding records, updatingthem, and so on and so forth. Ibasically want you to act as my ClickUpwrapper. I want to do this via APIcalls. We previously tried MCP, but I'mdoing a demo and I just want to do thisvia API instead. Okay, it's now buildingthis out systematically. So, it's goingto start by building a base ClickUp APIclient. It's then going to create CRUDscripts to create, get, update, delete.So, I'm going to create directives foreach operation. Then, finally, it'sgoing to update my env template. It sayswith a ClickUp API key placeholder. Um,I did just remove it, so I'm going tohave to add that in again most likely.What's really cool is I know nothingabout any of this stuff, and it's justdoing it all completely automaticallyright now. It's writing all thedirectives, all the executions,literally everything that I need. Andso, the reason why I'm showing youmultiple different ways to do things isbecause there almost always are multipledifferent ways to do things. And with AIand agentic workflow builders like this,it's not necessarily that one approachis better than the other. Sometimes I'lltry an approach and for whatever reason,whether the API isn't cooperating orit's just not very logisticallyreasonable, I will abandon it halfwayand then just do another one. There's noreason why I have to commit to somethingthat isn't working. And I can alwayschange things. Nowadays, the barrierisn't really whether or not it'spossible. The barrier is basically just,hey, how much time do I want to spendguiding or steering the ship in order toget this thing done for me. Okay, it'snow going through adding all theinformation that we need. I gave it theAPI key as you guys could see above.It's going to essentially loop over asmany times as it takes because of whatis in the cloud MD. Eventually, it willum, you know, solve its own problemsthrough a process called self annealing.And then we'll be able to do things likecreate tasks, delete them, update them,and so on and so forth. So, it's justrunning through and testing all of thevarious scripts that it put together.The creating of a task, the deleting,the cleaning up, so on and so forth. So,let me give it some more highleinstructions just to tell it I reallywanted to work within that templatecreative agency uh uh space. I'd likeyou to do all of your tasks solely inthe template creative agency space.Update everything to reflect this. Thenwhatever you need to in order to reflectthis. Then create a new lead called NickSar.Cool. Looks like it already knows whatit needs to do. So now it's going tocreate the lead. And you can see it'seven given me a link to the lead so thatI can pull it up and see it for myself,which is pretty cool. Awesome. Why don'twe see if this has access to some otherfields? Do you have access to customfields? Okay. First, it's going to seethe custom fields in this list. It'sthen going to see if we could set theappropriate one. Nice. That's prettycool. So, whereas the other one couldnot set custom fields, um, this one canset custom fields, which is prettysweet. As you guys could see, sometimesthere's pros or cons to differentapproaches. This one was really awesome.So, to be honest, I now basically havelike a whole CRM manager. Great. Deletethe record. That was just for demo.I'd personally say having some sort ofCRM wrapper like this now with the powerof current technology is like anon-negotiable. This thing just makesour lives so much easier. And what'sreally cool is we could weave flows intogether. So when somebody becomes a newclient, for instance, we could thenautomatically send that onboarding flow,then maybe even reflect that by adding acomment or something like this. Thesethings will supercharge any CRM veryvery quickly. Okay, I want to talk alittle bit about cloud skills. Um, thisis really similar to DO like we just tedchatted about, but it is specific to thecloud family of models. So you can't usethe same cloud skills structure that I'mabout to show you in like Gemini orOpenAI or or GPT 5.2 or whatever. It'svery very specific to Claude. That said,you know, all of these model familiesnow have their own versions of this. SoI wanted to cover probably like the mostpopular one just so we're all on thesame page. I care a lot aboutinterpretability and modularity. So Iwant to be able to use the same workflowsetup in, you know, model A versus modelB versus model C. Um cloud skills areobviously hyperspecific to anthropicsmodel. Now, this was their attempt tostandardize Agentic workflows intoreusable portable packages. And justlike DO, it's a folder structure. Itcontains instructions, scripts, prompts,and resources that Claude will loadevery time you call something. So, it'sjust a slightly different folderstructure that includes a file called askill.md. And I'm going to run youthrough that in a moment. The way thatskills work in a nutshell is just ignorethe lefth hand side of this graph cuz Ithink this is a little more complicatedthan we probably need right now. Butbasically, you have your agent and youragent organizes things into these skillsfolders. And so, it's a skills foldersslash whatever the the skill um that youwant it to to know is. So, in this case,there's a skill called big query. Then,you'll see there's a capital skill.mdwith a data sources.md, a rules.md. Overhere, there's an NDA review, whichincludes a skill.md. The skill.md isjust your directive, right? And you'llnotice that because it's in markdown.Everything else here is entirely up toyou. And so it's sort of like a looseframework right now where people arejust dumping in whatever the heck theywant the agent to have access to. It'salso just a form to uh a way that youcan modularize things. And basicallywhat you'll do is you'll just have likea big list a big directory calledskills. Then underneath that you willhave things like you know hey uh let'sdo big query. Let's do one called docx.Let's do one called pdf. Let's do onecalled I don't know scrape leads. Andeach of these are going to be folders umthemselves. So very similar to do. justtakes a slightly different approach.Instead of having like the executablesand like the scripts and stuff like thatstored in other folders like anexecution scripts folder, um it juststores it all in the exact same one. Theway I treat things is as an instructionmanual that Claude reads first. There'sone slight difference between the waythat the markdown file is written in sofar that um it uses what's called YAMLfront matter. YAML just stands for yetanother markup language by the way,which is really funny. There's like amillion different ways to do this.Basically what this is is this is like ashort I don't know 100 character 200character description of what the skilldoes. Um so as opposed to with you knowthe directive orchestration executionframework you know I don't usually useYAML I just like have it whip it upalthough YAML I think would be animprovement. Um you know instead of justnaming something really descriptivelywhat this does is actually just providessome context. Hey this script does X Yand Z. Hey this uh skill asks for thisthing. And then you know what'll happenis upon runtime claude will load theskill based on whatever task you'reasking to perform just based off of theYAML front matter which just means itsaves a lot of tokens. It doesn't haveto read the whole thing. So this is justa small block of metadata at the top ofthe file. There's like a name field,there's a description field, and thenthere's a purpose field and I'll showyou an actual concrete example in asecond. And then it's like kind ofseparated like this. And then when theagent loads the file um to actually likesearch through your skills, you say,"Hey, you know, I want you to scrapesome leads." It'll actually just loadthis. So, it's way way shorter. Smallmetadata allows it to, you know, onlyload a few hundred characters at a timeas opposed to big chunks. It allows itto understand what the skill doeswithout reading the whole thing. Now,there's also a big library of pre-builtskills right now for common tasks,mostly relating to documents. Um, andthese are just skills that have beenlike hyper optimized over the course oftens of thousands of runs. You can thinkof them as execution scripts anddirectives that are just really, really,really self- annealed and they're justreally, really powerful. So, we can doPDF creation, do word documents easily,Excel spreadsheets, PowerPointpresentations. The quality issurprisingly good. And because so manypeople have run these things becausethey've optimized the hell out of it,they tend to execute super quickly andthen they also tend to be like prettyreliable. All right, let me show yousome cloud skills in action. Let's talkabout how to build things in cloudskills format instead of do format. Iwant you guys to see it's more or lessthe same thing. This is just highlycloudspecific. So I have a simple taskin front of me here. I want to create anew cloud skill called generate- report.And I want this to build a weeklyweather report with publicly availableinformation from some API. I justGoogled weather API. Pasted this inthere. I don't even know if it's goingto work, but we'll figure it outalongside each other. I also said I wanta Canada specific just because I'mCanadian. I.e. this report should be allabout the weather across Canada. Now thelast thing I need is I need some sort oftemplate. So I'm just going to go andI'm going to see if I could download afree report template.Let's see. It's going to open up a bunchof tabs. What do we got here? 2035annual report. That looks ridiculous.[gasps] Um, okay. This one looks prettycool. Can I just download this wholething? Okay. Anyway, I'm just going togo over to Canva here. And then I'm justgoing to download this as uh what are wegoing to do? PDF. Let's just do PDF.We'll do all pages. I'll click download.Once I have this, I'm then going toprovide this file to Cloud Code.I have a template file in I'll just dragthis over totand I'll just call it uhorange and black modern annual reportthat I want you to use. Go. Awesome.So it's then going to pull that file andthen it's going to because it knows howto generate cloud skills sort ofnatively go through the whole process.Okay. It's going through and thencreating the skill directory structure.Uh it's then writing the skill MD withinstructions. It's doing a fair amountof stuff. So I'm just head over to hereto skills and then I'll see where thiswould be. Okay. Generate report rightover here.Okay. And inside there's a skill.md.Then there's also a scripts folder. Thisis where we're going to insert thescripts. It's now going to go fetch abunch of weather data. The cool thingabout Claude skills is there's thislittle YAML front matter. It's called YA ML and then front matter is justeverything that's between these threedashes. And here we have the name, abrief description, and then also someallowed tools, which is really cool. Soyou can get very granular with how yougive your agent access to theseworkflows. And then what's cool is theyonly actually um load this into contextbefore deciding on which skill to use.So that way you save a fair amount oftokens because it doesn't have to likeread every single file, right? Okay, I'mthen going to get an API key payment.Okay, it looks like open weather map isnot free despite it saying that it isfree. I need to sign up and then entersome payment information. So don't usethat. U what I've done here is I've justsaid, hey, it's not free. So find asource that is free. So now it's goingto go and it's going to find mesomething that is realistically. Lookslike it found an alternative sourcecalled open- so it's just going torewrite it with that information inmind. Now that it's done a little bit ofwork, what it's doing is just testingthis skill. Okay, looks like it has nowgenerated me a file. Let's just say openPDF.Cool. And now we have it. So, Canadaweekly weather 2025, table of contents,national overview, weather highlights,west coast prairie, central Canada. So,you guys can see it is very, very easyto create a template using a PDF. Justdrag and drop that puppy in. And thenboom, you now have native intelligencethat is capable of interacting withtools like this to generate honestly avery clean and very sexy proposaldocument. Pretty straightforward, huh?So, I mean like this is just one of manyasset generation workflows that youcould do. Um, hopefully you guys see youcould now like generate proposals in aflash. You could generate any PDF in aflash, customized assets or slide decksor whatever the heck you want. um itreally only takes a data source, thetemplate itself and then you waitingaround 5 minutes or so as it selfanneals and then generates. Let's talk alittle bit about model context protocol.So this is essentially a USB for AI. Theidea is that it is a universal adapterthat lets any assistant whatever modelfamily connect to any data sourceinteroperably. Now when I say USB um awhile back you had so many differenttypes of USBs. You had like a USB 1, youhad a USB 2, you had a USBA,a USB. I don't actually know if thisone's real, but you had like hundreds ofdifferent types of USB configurations,basically hundreds of different cables.And then um eventually somebody made aUSBC and they realized that this is justlike the superior format and then theymade either regulations depending onwhere you live or just heavilyincentivized the market to just produceUSBC's because USBC's if we all juststandardize to one adapter means thatlike I could just buy any device andthen I could just slot that into anyother device and it would just work. Idon't have to carry around 20 differenttypes of cables. I just know that thissort of adapter function is just goingto make everything work and uh it'sgoing to be super easy and moreconvenient. That's essentially just whatMCP is. We're just doing that for our AIagents. This was introduced by Enthropicback in November 2024. It's astandardized way for AI assistants toconnect to any external data and tools.And this isn't just Claude to be clear.Um they just made this for everybody. Sothis works with, you know, like theOpenAI family of models. This works withthe Gemini family models. The whole ideais it just eliminates the need for thosecustom USBs for every connection. Just auniversal translator. It's like imaginethere was some language that you knowanybody on planet earth could speak andyou know when you meet a person whodoesn't speak the other language thatyou speak you just all use the samelanguage it's espironto or whatever butit's for um you know AI agents that'sbasically it there are two main piecesto understand there are MCP clients onone hand and then there are MCP serverson the other hand so you know theseclients are basically our AI apps sothese are our things like anti-gravitythese are our VS codes and these arealso are things like uh I don't knowclawed desktopthese are things like you know chat GPTand basically what these are is youremember how earlier in the course Isaid that chats are just like theinterfaces that agents are using rightnow they're sort of borrowing thembecause we don't have a better interfacewell that's essentially all a client isit's just an interface so the client isthe tool that houses the agent rightit's the shell around it and what thisdoes is it connects to servers and theseservers are based on specific tools. Sofor instance, there is an Appify MCPserver. In addition to an Appify MCP,there's like an Apollo MCP.There is a I don't know Google DriveMCP. There's a Sheets MCP.And the point is whatever client you'reusing at the time, so maybe anti-gravityin this case, just calls the specificMCP whose configuration files youinclude in your workspace. So inanti-gravity I might have you know anappy mcp drive mcp and sheets mcp andthen what I do is I just say hey can youyou know look at my drive for whateverfile and then turn that into a big CSVand then can you feed that CSV into appyand you know assuming that these threeMCPS are good because there's a lot ofquality variance in MCPS right now um itcan actually do what you want it to doyou can also store highle directivesthat explain how to chain these togethereven more in-depthly and more reliablyand then the MCPS are essentially allyjust your execution scripts. Right nowthere are three main ways that MCPservers communicate with MCP clients.There are resources which are structureddata like documents, code, databaserecords and so on and so forth. Thenthere are tools which are functions thatyour agent can call. These are analogousto execution scripts on our end. Andthen there are prompts which arebasically just like system prompts forspecific things. They guide how themodel should interact with specificserver. Hey, you should use this uhexecution script when you want to dothis function. Hey, you should call thisresource. You shouldn't pagionate all ofthem. You should only call the first 50lines. This just is like highleinstructions that help the model dothings more reliably. The whole idea ofMCP is really just to make the entireinternet web accessible to our agents.Every tool gets its own MCP server. Whatyour agent does is it only loads theones that you absolutely need. Thismeans you never have to build customtools from scratch. though I think it ispretty easy and pretty great to getyourself that functionality and you getto give your agent breadth out of thebox with very little effort on yourpart. In addition, you can also buildyour own custom MCP servers. The valuehere is not only are you going to haveyour own agent use it, of course, youcould share it with other people. And bysharing it with other people, you caneither ask them to either pay you orsomething to build the MCP server or,you know, let's say you're an API thatbuilds an MCP server around yourfunction, you can make things moreaccessible and then increase yourcompany revenues. So, it's very veryeasy to build these things with AIassistance. When MCP came out, it wasvery difficult, but now it's super easy.I actually built one in 10 minutes theother day. I never read any MCPdocumentation and it did somethingreally cool for me, which I may talkabout in a future video. This means youcan create specialized tools forspecific workflow needs anytime that youwant. And then if other people within,let's say, your organization want to usethis or whatever, you just share the MCPserver. Uh it's always going to work thesame out of the box because it's thesame server now. There are multiplepeople that can iterate and improve it,not just you. So the main question I getat this point is why don't we just useMCP for everything? Sounds great, right?Maybe we should. Well, the reason why isbecause MCP takes a lot of tokens. Andthe more context a model deals with, thedumber it gets. If you fed in the exactsame prompt to two models, except promptone said what you wanted it to say in, Idon't know, 10 words, and prompt twosaid the exact same thing, but it wroteit really inefficiently and made itreally, really, really, really long. Themodel would almost always perform betterhere. Maybe this would have a 99%success rate, whereas this would have an85% success rate or something. What Imean to say is there's a very strongrelationship between token count incontext and then performanceand this is improving as models get moreintelligent but essentially performanceas tokens go longer and longer andlonger in the context almost alwaysnecessarily will decline. It's notexactly like this because usually whenyou provide more context, it's actuallya little like bump until you get to acertain point and then it startsdeclining because it's like here wedidn't really provide enough informationfor the model to know what's going on.Whereas here, maybe we provided a bunchof examples or whatever, which is why itdoes better. But inevitably, the longerthat you um add a bunch of informationthat isn't relevant to your task, themore tokens that you have in thatprompt, the crappier your outputs aregoing to be. And the issue with MCP isit actually loads pretty much all of itsavailable functions into your agentscontext window. Now there are somedevelopments that are fixing this. Theseare like at runtime MCP servers where umyour AI just makes an intelligentdetermination about which MCP servers toload and stuff like this. But MCP as aframework is still pretty new and a lotof the MCP servers out there are prettycrappy. So regardless, we're loading aton of tokens into a context window.Every function will have a name. They'llhave a description. There'll also be aschema. This will be a few hundredtokens usually. And what that means isif you connect five servers and everyserver has 10 tools. So like if youconnected to the drive server and thenthe drive server had I don't know getfile. Okay, this is one of the functionsor execution scripts. I don't know ithas read file. It has share file and soon and so forth. Right? Every single oneof these would have a name, description,schema, name, description, schema, name,description, schema. We're gettingreally high up in the tokens already,right? If you have 300 tokens perdefinition, even five servers with 10tools each means 15,000 tokens. Andthat's before you've done anything. So,it's like you're already on that graphthat I showed you guys earlier, youknow, if this is your performance whenyour token count is really low, you'reprobably already like down over here.You have some loss in percentage, whichis just ultimately not efficient forbusiness purposes. And you're probablywondering like, well, Nick, how bad isit really? What I want to do here is Ijust want to show you a quick example onsome older models. And obviously, keepin mind that in order for us to doresearch on things, they necessarilyhave had to been out for a while. Um,but older models and how their accuracyon tasks scales with the number ofdocuments in the input context. Sonumber of documents in the input contextis basically equivalent to tokens inthis way. So I don't know just call thethe number you know one document in thiscase is probably equal to like 1,000tokens or something like that. So as wesee here at the very beginning when thecontext is quite small and we only havefive documents in the input context. Youknow this um model here GBT3.5 turbo 16kperforms very well. It performs maybesomewhere around 75% or so. The secondwe double that accuracy is now toslightly over 65%. We double that againand now it's almost down to 60%. Andthen if we 1.5x that, now it's likesomewhere between 50 and 60%. Soperformance here really drops offextraordinarily quickly. And so to makea long story short, the reason why thishappens is really similar to what Ishowed you guys earlier on in a demowhere like if you just have one tokenand then you have three potential tokenshere, you know, basically every singletime you are forced to compute like thenext token in a sequence, the totalvariance of the things that you could begenerating just kind of go through theroof. And so that's that's what'soccurring here. In order for you knowthis model to somehow know that theright answer is over here obviously itneeds to somehow maintain some degree ofaccuracy and coherence. And that justbecomes less and less and less and lesslikely uh the more tokens that yougenerate. Now obviously it doesn'thappen this quickly. It happens over thecourse of many thousands of tokensnowadays. But back in the day when I wasworking with um just the base vanillaGPT2 the output quality was supersensitive to the number of tokens theinput prompt. Like if you added anadditional five tokens and those tokenswere not very high quality tokens, theydidn't really add a lot of value. Likeaccuracy would plunge off a cliff. Screwdocuments here. Pretend like we're justtalking number of tokens. At five itmight be 70, but at 10 it wouldliterally jump down and so on and soforth. So anytime you try and get to anyreasonable answer, you're alreadyworking super super below um you knowtotal accuracy limits. Here's anotherexample of memory retrieval accuracy. Sobasically if there is some token buriedsuper deep in the context of you know amodel that's doing 2 million48,000context window um it forgets it you knowwhen there are only 30,000 tokens in theprompt or whatever it sees and finds itlike 100% of the time but if there are Idon't know 2 million it'll actuallyforget about that a massive chunk of thetime and it won't even realize like thatthere is a token within its context.basically its ability to retrieve thingsfrom its memory, intermediate memory inthis case, which is just the chat andthe prompt, um, plummets. Finally, youcould see here a needle in the haystacksort of example. Um, very similar towhat we were talking about earlier, butbasically as the number of tokens goesup, you see a massive decrease in justthe model's ability to meaningfully keeptrack of things. And this is just sortof the way that intelligence works,right? The more things we're trying tojuggle and keep in our headsimultaneously, the higher thelikelihood that we're going to forgetany one of them. So, as a demonstrativeexample, let's say I wanted my agent towrite me an absolutely beautiful poemall about the meaning of life and ourplace in the universe. I say, "I'm a bigfan of MayaangAngelou and Pablo Nuto iswonderful as well. Please make this umshort but also punchy and verybeautiful." If you think about itlogically, like this prompt right hereis a certain number of tokens and I cancount that here. I'm using a servicecalled wordcounter.net. It doesn't counttokens, it counts words. But if you wantthe number of tokens, you basically justgrab the number of words, then youmultiply it by, you know, uh, 1 divid0.7 approximately. If I do that math,this is somewhere on the order of like67 tokens. But I want you to lookreally, really closely at what I justwrote here. Are all of these wordsrequired in order to get the model to dosomething for us? Like what is theinformation density of this sentence?Hello. Is that required? Probably not,right? I could probably realisticallyremove that. could. It's kind of a longway to say can. Can can you is kind of along way to just tell it to writesomething. So, write me an absolutelybeautiful do I need that? No. Write me abeautiful poem all about no about themeaning of life and our place in theuniverse. I sayemulate Maya AngelouPablo Naruda.Short, punchy,and I don't actually need to say verybeautiful because I just said so earlierup here. Now, if you compare what I justwrote um initially at 47 words to what Iwrote here at 22 words, notice how Ibasically said the exact same thing Idid in the first prompt just in terms ofthe actual like pure informationdensity. I just did it in less than halfof the words. So now instead of 67tokens, this is probably somewhere rightaround like, you know, 28 tokens orsomething like that. What that means,walking back to our example, is you canrealistically significantly improve theultimate quality of an output just byrefactoring the sentences that you feedinto a prompt. Instead of hello, couldyou write me an absolutely beautifulpoem all about the meaning of life orwhatever, I could create a new promptinstance and then I could just say theexact same thing. And instead of medoing this on, you know, two lines orsomething like that, I could do this onone line. And although it is verydifficult to determine the quality of apoem quantitatively what is occurringstatistically is the quality of thispoem over here will be better than thequality of this poem over here. Thereason why is I just wrote it in ashorter sort of punchier way. So asopposed to if you think about this graphum you know quality and then the promptlengthas opposed to me being somewhere overhere like in this example realisticallythis example I'm probably somewhere overhere right so the reason I'm showing youthis is because this is exactly whatmodels are actually doing under the hoodinstead of writing in in like laboriouslong sort of ways what they are doing isthey're actually compacting the wordsthat you are saying into as high aninformation density summary of yourprompt as humanly possible. And theyhave a couple of strategies to do this.I don't know if you guys have seen likereasoning tokens, but the way thatreasoning occurs here is it's actuallydone like a very high informationdensity way. They actually specificallyhave trained the model to write in a waythat is shorter on tokens as opposed tolonger. If you look at other models outthere like GPTOSS 20 bill for instanceor maybe 120 bill, um these are opensource models that OpenAI released alittle while ago. You'll notice when youexpand the reasoning tokens a verypeculiar thing. It writes super short.It says need to define X but also Y butmaybe Z. And you're like what the heck'sgoing on? This is like an alien reallyshort form way of writing. Well, thereason why it's writing that way isbecause it's just much higherinformation density. And the highertheformational content in your promptper token, the ultimate better responseyou are going to get. Another strategythat models will use is they willcompact. Okay? And what I mean by thisis basically every time you feed in anyprompt to a model, what it's also doingis it's going back and feeding in everymessage that you and it have ever sentto each other in the same chain. So whatcompaction is is it basically is justyou take the entire history of yourprompt and then you just summarize it.Summarize everything we've talked aboutso far. So now I'm just going to have itsummarize it all into a very succinctmessage. And then the way the compactionworks is once we hit a certain tokenamount which uh could be you know 50% ofthe total number of tokens allotted orwhatever this summary is then fed intothe next instance of the model and sonow you know a future instance of inthis case claude code would have accessto more or less the full summary. Surewe'll miss some details but a lot ofthose details aren't really thatconsequential or important anyway. Thinkof how many fewer tokens this is thanliterally my entire conversation historyfrom start to finish. Another big issueis when your agent calls an MCP tooldirectly, the entire response goes intothe context. So if I were wanted to pulla document from Google Drive, forinstance, I would actually then have tostore the entire thing in my context, atleast the way models are right now. If Iwanted to query a Google sheet for like10 rows or something, let's say all 10rows had like 20 columns each. Well, nowI have 200 additional cells within mycontext. Meaning that your agent can hitthe context ceiling really fast. theycan burn a ton of money and so on and soforth when you use generalized MCPtools, not tools that you buildyourself, but ones that other peoplebuild for you without really optimizingthe process.Last thing I'm going to note on this isnot all MCP servers are created equal. Alot of servers are rushed to market tocapitalize on the hype. I know a couplejust off the top of my head that arejust super poor. They don't return likeany good error codes. They don't eveninteract with the APIs correctly andtons of people are unfortunatelystruggling because of that. Um, somegood examples are perplexities and NANDservers. Uh, but some really badexamples of this, too. I'm not going toname the names, but some are a completejoke. In general, you will know when youstart interacting with an MCP server.Just going to flag a bunch of errors.Your model's just going to be dumb ashell. You could tell pretty quick. Allright, so let me show you how easy it isto connect the Google Drive MCP server.We've already done a little bit of MCP.I've obviously wanted to tease thatthroughout the course to keep you guysum interested and engaged, but this timeI'm actually going to do a fullcomprehensive walkthrough on how to doit. We're going to connect this to ouragent, and then we're going to use it toperform a really simple operation. Ijust want you to notice how how seamlessthe integration is. Once it's set up, Idon't actually have to even like set upthe directive or the script or anything.I can just like uh communicate with itin plain language and it can go in andcall the appropriate tools for me. Let'stalk MCPs. Now, as I've talked about,model context protocol servers differ intheir quality. Some were made prettyhastily, others were made very umcarefully and are very high quality. Butbecause of this, you do have to be alittle bit careful and be open to doingsome trial and error when it comes toadding your own MCPs. Regardless, I'mgoing to show you guys how simple andeasy it is to do. First of all, thereare tools and websites out there likemcpmarket.comand mcpservers.orgwhose sole job it is to basicallycategorize and then list all of the goodMCP features out there. So, as you cansee, there's an MCP for Trigger Dev, MCPfor OpenSpec, Fast API, Pipe Dream, PAL,and these on these tools anyway arebasically rated uh based off of theirquality. So, the higher up the better,right? So, if you want the ability toautomate browser interactions for largelanguage models using Playright, this isthe MCP for you. You know, if you wantChrome DevTools, this is the MCP modelfor you. If you want to automate, Idon't know, Sereno specifically, thenthis is the one for you, and so on andso on and so forth. What I want to do inthis video is show you just how easy itis to set one up. Um, you guys havealready seen me do this for ClickUp,although that wasn't the point of thetutorial. What I'm going to do in thisdemo is just be a lot more specificabout it. So, simplest and easiest wayto get up and running with an MCP isjust to ask your agent. So, I'm justgoing to say, hey, I want to set up aGmail MCP so that I can send emails ondemand from my email address. And thenI'm going to give it some details justthat it knows that, you know, this islike a Google Workspace sort of address.And let's see what it does. First, it'sgoing to look and see whether or notthere's some email MCP already. It'sprobably not going to find it. It reallydoes help to open up these thinkingmodules. So now it's going to say, "Hey,you know, I see you've already set up anSMTP email for this email address, butinstead here are two approaches. First,you can do quick SMTP. Second, you cando the Gmail MCP." So obviously, I wantto do Gmail MCP. Let's do the Gmail MCP.I want you to do everything you can forme. Typically, models will give youinstructions and stuff like this, butit's much better just to have them do itall for you. So, anytime you don'treally know what to do or it's laboriousor involved, just see how much the modelcan do for you. And that's what it iscurrently doing. Okay, cool. And thisactually ended up finding a previousOOTH instance somewhere on my computer.I should note it was not in this folder.I just asked it to get up and going.It's running into some issues herebecause I haven't actually done this forthis MCP before, which isunderstandable. Now, it's going to addsome to my cloud config. Okay, now it'sasking me to sign in. So, I'm going tosign in right over here. Cool. Says theauthentication successful. We can nowclose this window. Okay, so now I justneed to restart cloud code. Okay,just going to go MCP or manage MCPS.See that I had have my Gmail MCPconnected.And now I can just say, "Hey, send anemail to Nicholas orgmail.comsaying what's up." Boom. Just sent methe email. Fantastic. That was easy.Okay, that's cool. Um, now that we'vesent the email, obviously we have totalk about how to set up your own MCPservers, which is way cooler. So, how doyou actually go about this process?Well, I didn't actually know until quiterecently. I just asked how would Icreate my own MCP server, and now it'sgiving me a bunch of knowledge. Here'show to create your own server usingPython. So, hypothetically, just for thepurpose of this demonstration, I want toset up a really simple MCP, one that umjust does something reallystraightforward. Just reads my website.Maybe it has some information about mywebsite, and then it just like returnsinformation about it. So, I said,"Create a simple custom MCP server whosesole job it is is to interact with thiswebsite, www.leftclick.ai."Now, in case you guys didn't know,leftclick.ai is my business. Um, we arethe definitive AI growth partner forfastmoving B2B companies. Uh,essentially what we do is we buildoutbound growth engines that supplementAI to do things like personalize theemails, find leads, and so on and soforth. I talk about it a lot on mychannel. And so, literally all I wantthis MCP to do is basically just to bebe a resource for this website. I wantpeople to be able to download it andthen just be like, "Hey, tell me aboutleftclick and I want it to call theMCP." Is that something you need? No,obviously not. But you don't need MCPsin general. MCPS are just convenient,nice little wrappers around functions.Moving back to Cloud Code here, you cansee that it now created an MCP-serversfolder. And what it's doing next isit'll write the server Python code. Ihave no idea what that Python code lookslike. After that, it'll create some TOMLfor dependencies before providing someregistration instructions for me. Okay,so it looks like it just finished.Creates a server that exposes fivetools. Get company overview, getservices, get booking link, get casestudies, and search site. So that'spretty easy. It's saying, "Hey, do youwant to register with cloud code?" I'lljust say, "Great. Sounds good.Register."It'll go through the rest of thatprocess for me. Okay. So now I'm goingto do a new instance of Cloud Code.Again, going to go /mcp status. It's nowloading my servers. And you can see nowwe have the leftclick st serveravailable. So go to bypass permissionsand then I'll say tell me aboutleftclick. Now what occurs when thishappens is because we have access to theMCP data, it'll actually find that andthen get me information about it. Sothat's what's happening right here. Wecalled the MCP server as opposed todoing something else. Maybe I'll saywhat's the booking link. The reason I'masking this is because I saw there was abooking link feature. So it's going tocall the get booking link function. Hereit is. Leftclick.ai I book a call toschedule a complimentary 30-inutdiscovery call. Now, in my case, I don'tthink I actually have a calendar, whichis why it just gave me the thing andthen it told me where to find it. Buthopefully, it's clear. You can buildyour own MCP servers super easily. So,why build your own MCP servers to beginwith? Well, generally speaking, like Iprobably wouldn't put together MCPservers for most things these daysunless I wanted to share them withothers. So, like a creator building anMCP server for all of his followers touse, that's a pretty good um option. Andso maybe if there's something cool thatyou know I want to share with you guys,I might do that and then make itpublicly available. But aside from that,like why would you build an MCB serverinstead of maybe using cloud skills ordo I've had a lot of people ask me this,Nick, why don't you uh recommend MCPmore often and so on and so forth. Andthe reason why is it's just not reallyrequired. MCP is positive in so far thatit standardizes the ability to calltools and whatnot, but it's alsonegative in so far that it loads a toninto context. Like what you're notseeing here is how many tokens that I amessentially consuming by having this MCPserver. If I go back slash and thenwrite the word context, you'll see thatit actually includes a bunch ofinformation about my context usage. Andso of the basically the entireconversation we've had so far, um I'veused 1.4% in the system prompt, which isjust the um you know, claude.mmd, 7.4%in my system tools, which is justsomething I don't have control over. Andyou'll see that there's 8.2% 2% of myentire context window dedicated just toMCP tools. The rest of the stuff, 0.6%0.6% of my messages. And so what'sreally really kind of annoying is thatthis thing has basically filled up abouthalf of my entire contact window. Andreally I just have like a bunch ofreally simple tools. Leftclick atcompany overview, uh, Gmail send email.You know, this is eating up a ton of mytotal token space if you think about it.The left click server itself is uhalmost what I guess that's like 3,000 orso over 3,000 3,300 or something likethat um of my tokens. And you know thesetokens aren't free. I spend money to usethese tokens. I also obviously everytime I make a message and you know havesome output um the number of tokens inmy prompt it does affect the outputquality which we're going to talk aboutlater. So, for the most part, I don'tactually recommend using MCPS unlessit's something hyper standardized orunless it's like a one-click thing anduh unless, you know, you're building onethat you want to, you know, share maybewith your team or maybe with like agroup of people. All right, so now let'stalk about building the workflows. I'vebuilt a bunch of workflows for youthroughout various demos, but I now Iwant to provide you guys a systematicapproach to be able to do so yourselfreally easily and reallystraightforwardly. First majorprinciple, everything begins and endswith your system prompt. That systemprompt, as we know, is typically calledagents MD, claude MD, Gemini MD, orcursor MD. And there are many morenaming conventions. I'm not going tocover them all. The [snorts] namebasically just needs to match whateveryour IDE or agent looks for. And thecontent should be identical regardlessof how you call it. Now, for Dspecifically, I'll show you guys exactlywhat mine looks like in a sec. Thissystem prompt or agents MD or cloud MDor whatever, it's basically just asupercharged prompt. When youcommunicate with chatbt in your windowor in your browser and you say, "Hey, Iwant you to do whatever for me. That's apretty short prompt. This one isbasically a prompt that's inserted everytime and it's just super super long,super intense, super comprehensive, andit covers more or less all of the edgecases and ideas that you want the modelto have. It should explain yourframework. It should also explain yourthinking, what you want it to do atevery step, and then more. This is howyou customize your agent essentially, soit's not just a cookie cutter vanillaagent that functions the same foreverybody else. The prompt right now iskind of the moat. Now, I do recommendyou to copy and paste mine because it'sjust like out of the box pretty good.But there's some important things I'dlike you guys to make sure to includeregardless of whether you're using mineor whether you guys are using somebodyelse's. The first is you should explainthe framework. So whatever frameworkyou're using, whether you are using door claude skills, you should actuallyexplain that to the model. You shouldtell them where the resources are. Youknow, hey, directives are in the/directives folder. Hey, you should useTMP if you want to store temporaryfiles. Make sure to delete temporaryfiles after you're done. I also find alot of success in explaining therationale behind the framework. Itreduces error rate significantly. So Idon't just say hey you're using the doframework I say hey right now as a largelanguage model the probability that youcan do things completely on your ownwithout any framework is pretty lowbecause of that I'm using a frameworkcalled directive orchestration executionhere's how it works directives storewhatever orchestration is you executiondoes whatever by using this frameworkyou significantly reduce your errorrates and blah blah blah blah here's whyyou should do this right we actuallyconvince the model you almost have toget like buyin from the model when youget buyin from the model the resultingoutputs are a lot higher quality thesecond thing you should include is anexplanation of self- annealing. Now, I'mkind of cheating here because I haven'tactually got to this point, but bearwith me. Self- annealing is the processof the model fixing its own mistakeswithout coming to you first. So, ratherthan just break like an old schoolautomation, self- annealing means ifthere's an error, you then feed thaterror into the model, the model thenreasons and then it solves and thenfinally updates so that it doesn't runinto that problem the next time. In anutshell, self annealing allows themodels to become more resilient. Doesn'tjust get back to working. And every timesomething breaks, it's a feature, not abug, because it reveals weak points inyour flow that you didn't even knowexisted. I'm going to tell you all aboutself-nealing and go really in depth withlike system prompts and stuff like thatlater on, but for now, it's sufficientthat you just know what it is.The third thing you need to include isyou need to include a sense of autonomy.What do I mean by this? Well, I let themodel know that, hey, my goal is for youto run autonomously without me. You arean agentic workflow. I say you shouldtest each system on its own. you shouldidentify mistakes on your own and youshould loop repeatedly until you make itwork. I also say, "Hey, be careful whenyou're sending API calls or consuming mytokens for testing reasons." And then Isay, "Hey man, this is really just arule that says come to me only if youabsolutely need to. I don't want you tocome to me unless you are 100% confidentthat you cannot solve this thing withoutmy human input." And that's very, veryrare. When you do this, your model getssignificantly more autonomous and youreally change it from like this uh aco-builder programming thing into like aco-orker and a co-mp employee. At theend of the day, directives and executionscripts are basically living documents.So, if there's an error or a constraintthat you guys find, you should instructyour agent to update them. Cool. So,talking a little bit more aboutbuilding, if you have SOPs, you'reactually already halfway to havingstrong agentic workflows. All you reallydo is you just open your IDE. You dragyour existing SOP document from, youknow, your knowledge base or yourcompany PDF or your company uh one driveor Google Drive into your workspace. Youjust say, "Hey, I just uploaded a fileinto the workspace. Could you turn itinto a directive and build the executionscripts to make it happen?" Now, if it'sa really simple SOP, let's say somethingthat doesn't even need an executionscript necessarily. It's just like a anAI prompt thing, it it'll just do it andit'll do it like really quickly. If it'sa complex one, it may ask you to verifyits approach. Hey, you know, here's someideas that I have. What do you think Ishould do? Okay. Yeah, let's pick thefirst one. Let's proceed. When the agentdoes this, it'll create the directive in/directives. It'll build whateverscripts are needed, then store them inexecutions, and then if it doesn't haveAPI tokens or whatever, it'll just askyou to add them to an ENV. This worksreally well because SOPs are literallyalready directives. They containeverything the agent needs, the goals,the steps, the inputs, outputs, and edgecases. If yours are written correctly,all you're doing is you're justtranslating your human readabledocuments into another human readabledocument in the form of directives.You're not really getting the agent tolike come up with anything new. It'sjust reformatting and translating into amore token efficient format. All you'rereally doing is converting a recipe intoa format that some sort of robot chefcan follow. You're basically likeprogramming this thing. If your SOPsaren't very good, believe it or not,this is actually an opportunity to makethem better because your agent, knowingthat it does not have everything that itneeds in order to do the task, will askclarifying questions. This will forceyou as a systems engineer to resolveambiguities that a human being mightjust figure it out without explicitlyhaving to write. The resulting directiveends up being a lot better than theoriginal SOP a lot of the time. And itmeans that your messy docs become anopportunity to actually clean up yourprocesses and become a clearer company.I think that's really underrated, butcompanies in general tend to bury thelead. A lot of the time they don'tactually make explicit or verbalize allof the knowledge within the business.It's like, oh, just ask Pete forwhatever. Send an email to this person.I mean, your agent will say, well, like,who the heck is that and why does thatmatter? Right? Can we just include theinformation that we need in order to doit? Now, if you have a big weight stepor something, it'll be like, "Okay, tobe clear, why do you want me to wait?What is the purpose of this?" And so,the very building process itself canactually help significantly upgrade yourbusiness. Now, let's say you have nodocumentation. Well, if you don't haveany pre-existing documentation or SOPs,no problem. We can still make this work.What you do is you begin with some verybasic bullet points that describe yourideas surrounding the agent. I usereally plain conversational language. Iwill literally write down what I want todo as if I'm explaining it to acolleague. I have a bunch of people inmy team. A lot of the time this ismessages that I would have sent to them.So sometimes I literally just go intoSlack and I say, "Hey, I want you to doX, Y, and Z. It should be this. Itshould be that. It should be that."After I'm done explaining it like I'dexplain it to a colleague. I then justcopy and paste it in my agent. Do notoverthink the structure. Don't overthinkthe format. Just get your ideas down.Agents are really good at formattingthis. You can also use voice promptslike you've seen me do a bunch. And thenyou can refine and add detail later asyou test and learn and try differentapproaches. The really cool thing is youdon't actually need to know how to codeat all. You just need to know how toexplain what it is that you want, whichI think is a far more achievable skill.This is a real prompt from a leadgeneration system that I just built. Isaid, "Hey, scrape leads from Appifybased on the industry and location Ispecify. Then verify 80% match my targetmarket before doing the full scrape.When you're done, enrich missing emailsusing a secondary service like anymailinder. Then add everything to asharable Google sheet and send me thelink." Pretty straightforward and prettysimple, huh? All right, let me show youa practical demo. All right, let's buildanother agentic workflow together. Thisone I want to be a lead generation orlead scraping workflow. You guys mighthave seen me build these sorts of thingsbefore on my channel. I love buildingthem because they are so high leveragerelative to what I used to have to doback in the day. So, I figured I'd justbring you guys alongside me for uh oneof the new lead scraping workflows thatI'm going to put together. So, the firstthing I'm going to do, just like Ialways do, is I'm going to give it innatural language a set of instructionsto club. I'm using a voice transcriptiontool. So, I'll say, "Hey, I'd like tobuild a lead generation workflow thatscrapes publicly available informationto get me a list of B2B leads. What arethe three best approaches for this?"Now, I kind of know what I want to dohere, but I want to show you guys howyou can use an agent, not only as somebuilder, but also as something to assistyou with the ideation. So what this issaying is we could start by using aLinkedIn sales navigator or similartools to identify decision makers bytitle, industry, company size, thenenrich with contact data via APIs. Thatsounds pretty good to me. So I'm goingto need some additional tool. That'sokay.Let's go with the first. I think I'veheard of a few different tools we coulduse to do this. Phantom Buster is one.There's another one called Vain. Whichdo you think is best for our approach?How should we go about this exactly? So,it's now going through and it'sperforming a bunch of research on thesetools. Okay, now it's gone throughperformed a bunch of research on all ofthe tools that we could use and it sincerecommended me a uh a pipeline. So, thatsounds awesome. I really like this. Whydon't I say let's do it. Yes, I alreadyhave a sales navigator subscription.Let's do it. Build out a pipeline. Ialso already have a pre-existingsubscription to any MailFinder, which isan enrichment tool. So, why don't we usethat as part of our flow? I want you tobuild this using the DO framework. Letme know if you need anything.So now what we've done is we'vebasically takenour demand or our request I should sayand then we've paired it down into amuch higher probability build path umjust based off a couple of back andforth questions. If you think about it,the total amount of time that it takesan agent to build something is prettyshort, all things considered, but it'sstill like five or 10 or 15 minutes. Ifyou screw up and you go down the wrongpath, in order for you to walk back andstart fresh, you're probably going tohave to spend another 10 or 15 minutesin order to have the agent rebuild thenext thing. And so, at a very highlevel, giving it a tiny bit of inputinitially is super powerful, and it'salso a big time saver. So, I usuallyrecommend going back and forth at leasta little bit while it does its searches.and you know use your own humanknowledge really to pair down the totalum possible number of paths. So it'sgoing through building a Google SheetsLinkedIn lead genen lead enrichmentpipeline and any mailfinder clientpipeline. All right, once it's almostdone all of the scripts, it's going tocreate a directive just to tieeverything together. Do all this for me.Okay, I'm now having it wrap things up.We can now start giving it a test.Obviously, it is one thing if a modeltells you that it is good to go. It's acomplete other thing um whether or notthe flow actually works. So, we alwayshave to verify that the flow works withwith a real test. Okay, it's now testingout any mailinder, testing out theGoogle Sheets connection.Looks like it found an issue with theway that it was going to do theconnection. I added a credentials.jsonfile here just from another workspace,which is basically like an ooth thing.Um I didn't generate this thing. I hadthe model generate it for me. It's nowgoing to ask to authenticate for thefirst time. Anytime you connect to a newGoogle credential with OOTH, you'regoing to have to do this. Now I have thebrowser authentication. I'm just goingto pump over here and connect this. Thisis a great opportunity for me to pointout a common issue that people have withthe Gentic workflows. It's where they umessentially have the model generate atest case for them. So in this case,that's what's occurring here.Test_leads.csv.It then uses the test data essentiallyto test end to end to see whether or notthe flow works. That's not good enoughbecause if you think about it, the modeljust created a bunch of scripts. So thetest case that it will come up with ismost likely going to be in the sameformat that all of the rest of thescripts and so on and so forth expect.What's way more informative is for usjust to do this entirely based off newdata. So that's what I'm going to donext. I don't really want to export theleads from Vain. I instead want you todo all that for me.Okay. And it looks like it now is readyfor a test. So I just need to give it asales marketing or a sales navigator URLanyway and it'll do everything or Icould run it myself with one command.That's cool. Um what I'm going to do isI'll just go back to LinkedIn sales navhere and I have a link. Basically whatwhat happens on LinkedIn when you wantto find something like a list of peopleis you need to generate a search on thelefth hand side. Now you just need tocopy over the URL and then just paste itin. So I'm just going to paste this inand I'm just going to see what happens.We'll just test it in 10. All right. Andnow it has found 231 prospects. So it'sgoing to go through and scrape the 231profiles via vein. Then enrich with anymailinder before exporting to GoogleSheets. Okay, it had some issues with aparticular API call uh to Vain. It sinceself-annealed and automatically fixed itall. So it's just continuing down thebuilding process on that first run. OnceI have it finished this first run, I'mjust going to ask it to do a second run.And I'm going to do it completely fromscratch. So it's going to be like a coldstart. I'm going to instantiate a freshcloud instance, one that has no ideawhat the heck's going on. Then we'll seehow it goes. Okay, one of the outputswas buffered. That just means that uhbasically it was in a loop repeating. SoI just paused it and said how are wedoing? Looks like it's still running. SoPython is buffering the output. We'rejust going to wait for the completion.Sometimes some of these tool calls cantake a fair bit and that's what'shappening with any mailfinder. Thereason why this is actually good for usis because I get to show you guys lateron what it looks like to optimize aworkflow realistically. And I know thisbecause I've done a fair amount ofenrichment at this point. You do notneed to take this long to enrich 200records. You could probably enrich 200records in maybe like 15 seconds or sothrough bulk requests. Um the first timethat a agent ever builds a workflow,it's going to do so in as simple a wayas humanly possible. Typically throughserial requests, which just means thatit's sending one request at a time,waiting until the request is done, thensending another request after that. Butwhat you can do with a lot of workflowsis you can parallelize them, which meansyou could actually send 200 requestssimultaneously and then wait for theoutputs of all 200 in the same timeblock as opposed to, you know,independently. So I'm still going towait for this thing to finish because Iwant this test to be done end to end atleast once. Um, after that, we're goingto look into ways to make this fasterthrough parallelization and so on and soforth. Okay, so I got a little bit boredand I just said, hey, could we make thisway faster? It's since um offered tobatch all of these requests. So that'swhat it's going to do next. and let'ssee how quickly it performs. While I'mdoing that, let me just create a newsearch. Maybe instead of United Statesresidents, um I want to search Canadianresidents. [gasps] That way, we'll beable to split test this very quickly andeasily. As you can see here, we have 31results. Uh maybe we'll also do postedon LinkedIn, so maybe 45 or somethinglike that. Okay, no, it's just 20. If Ideselect this, how many do we get? 683.Uh too many. Why don't we just doVancouver instead? I I want like between50 to 100.Okay, 66. That's perfect. So, this isgoing to be the URL I use to test the umtotally fresh app. It's now just goingto go through the process of selfannealing, running, testing, and so onand so forth. Looks like it found 139valid emails of my 231 sent. Now, it'sjust going through and updating thescript a couple more times. Cool. It'sgone through and since found me a bunchof leads, I can open up the spreadsheetto get 159 rows. So, um, these are allof the the records with email addresses.Um, there were more records that didn'thave email addresses, but we just leftthose out. Obviously, this is prettysolid, but, um, I want to number one,make sure that we're documenting this.So, I'm going to head back over here,and I'll say make sure to document allchanges, both directives and executions.Once it's done with the documentation,I'm then going to open up a totally newfresh instance and then go through andthen um, update and then test. Cool. Andit looks like it did some updating.That's pretty solid. What I'm going todo next is I'm just going to open up anew instance of Cloud Code. Going to setit to bypass permissions and I'll say,"Hey, here's a search URL. Scrape theseusing our pipeline."All right. So now this is a totally newfresh cloud code instance. Let's see howit performs. It's going to start bythinking it's checking the directive forLinkedIn scraping, which is great.That's what we wanted. It's then goingthrough here. URL is a sales navigatorsearch has a bunch of information here.It's going to check how many leads areavailable. Cool. Found 66 prospects. Itis now going to perform the full scrape.Okay. And it looks like we got uh 45 outof those 66. So, this did work on atotally fresh list. Um took me about 4minutes. I got a little bit overeagerand I was like, "Hey, are you done yet?"But realistically, this uh this workspretty well. So, I mean, a couple ofdifferent approaches that I could takehere. Obviously, I could make thisbetter, could make this faster. I couldset up approaches to dump all this intoGoogle sheet instantly using bulk. Icould do I could do a lot of stuff anduh that's what I want to talk aboutnext. But for the purposes of thisdemonstration, this is good to go. Wehave essentially created a workflow tocompletely or almost completely automatethe entire process of scraping LinkedIn.Obviously, there is still one manualstep, which is we need to provide theLinkedIn sales navigator URL, but that'ssomething that we could reasonablyautomate if we'd like to as well. So,here's what you don't need to specify.You don't need to know which APIs to useor how they authenticate. You also don'tneed to know how to structure the codeor handle an error case yourself. Andyou don't even need to know any Python,any JavaScript, or any programminglanguage. The agent's whole job is toabstract that complexity away from youand turn it into a natural language. Areally cool hack that I'm using a lotmore of now is I don't just have theagent solve it one approach. I actuallyhave the agent produce three approachessimultaneously. Then I either pick oneof the three, whichever one makes themost sense, or this is kind of neat,[clears throat] I have parallelinstances of my agent generate all threedirective and execution scripts basedoff of each approach. I then just testtheir outputs and I rate. I test them onthings like how fast it is, test them onthings like how reliable it is and howcheap it is, and then I just pick thebest performing one, and then that's it.Why three approaches? Well, if you thinkabout it, the cost of exploring multipleapproaches is basically free. They'renot it's not free free tokens are notfree yet but they are very cheapcompared to the cost of intelligence andit's also a big chunk of the searchspace. Uh basically if this is like theamount of space you have to searchthrough in order to come up with yourreally really cool problem rather thanhave your agent just go like manuallyone by one by one by one and just kindof do this whole thing on its own. Umyou can actually just like quarter thisyou know and in my case I said three butyou could totally have it four and thenjust have like four agents independentlysimultaneously. I can't drawsimultaneous executions here, but justassume that it is. Explore that searchbase in like a tenth of the time. Whenyou do this, I recommend you have it runin a temporary folder. So, you say,"Hey, do this in a temporary folder.Don't do this in the main directiveexecution um framework." Cuz I'mactually giving this to a few of yourbrother and sister agents to runsimultaneously to figure out the bestapproach. There are a couple oftrade-offs with every single way thatyou build. The first is speed versuscost. So, do you need it fast or do youneed it cheap? Obviously, we're lookingfor situations where we have both, but alot of the time you have to maketrade-offs. Next is reliability andcomplex complexity. The simple solutionsdo break less often. If you can storethings in one execution script, it's wayfaster and better than if you storethings in 10. The next is breadth versusdepth. So if you cover more ground or goreally, really, really deep on a fewitems, it's going to depend or it'sgoing to change how your agentconstructs things. And then finally,sometimes you just need human judgmentto weigh these things. So I wouldrecommend at least asking your agent,how would you do this stuff before youactually have it go and build uh everyapproach. If you think about itlogically, this steering is the highestreturn on investment time that you willever spend across your entire agenticworkflow career. And the reason why isreally some of what I talked aboutearlier. If you just look at any processthat has variability in its outputs,okay, this variability grows over timeas you proceed through the process justbecause there are more and more and moreand more steps possible, right? And soright now, this is kind of like therange of all of the possible umdecisions that the model could make.Well, if you think about it, the onething that you have the power to do atthe very very beginning is you have thepower to steer what direction this thinggoes. And so let's say hypothetically mygoal is over here, right? Or maybe weshould say my goal is over here. If atthe very beginning, literally from thefirst step, the model is already in thewrong direction. It doesn't reallymatter how much time and energy it takesto build things, right? But if you couldjust reorient this approach down overhere, then your solution is actually inthe range of all possible outcomes. Icall this steering just like steering acar. If you steer, let's say you'regoing like a real straight line trackand your car at the very beginning ofthe track is already starting to veeroff a little bit. Obviously, the mostimportant thing you can do as a, youknow, driver is you could just steer itso that it goes basically as as straightdown the middle of this thing as humanlypossible, right? And that's justultimately something that really takeslike a minute or two. I wouldn'trecommend trying to outsource everythingto the model, like the thinking itself.The first version of anything you buildprobably will not be perfect. And thefirst versions of a lot of the thingsthat I build do suck, but that's okay.That's actually one of the points. Doughreally depends on iteration. So just runthe workflow a few times, watch whathappens, open up the reasoning loop, andthen just take some notes on what'sslow. Hey, I don't really like this.Hey, this takes forever. Is thatnecessary? Hey, um, I don't like howthis had to call this API. Hey, this isa little too expensive. How can we do itcheaper? Right? Actually, just tell themodel what it is. Like, it's you're notgoing to hurt its feelings. It's a theform of intelligence that none of us canreally quantify. Don't anthropomorphizethe damn thing. What'll happen is theagent will diagnose the problem and thenimplement a fix. And ideally, assumingthat you have it in your system prompt,it'll also update both the executionscript and your directive, which meansnext time you run from a fresh instance,it will already know the solution. Andthat's typically what I recommend. Irecommend running it, fixing it, gettingin that testing loop over and over andover again. And when you really want toverify that this thing works, you justopen it up in a new instance and thenhave it run. Every problem that youencounter will make your system strongerif you're smart. Edge cases will gethandled that you never anticipated. uhand after a few iterations you will havea robust workflow uh that I've heard alot of people say this term battletested I think battle tested about isabout as real and as accurate a way todescribe it but you'll have somethingthat is actually just kind of like beenthere done that it has seen all possibleinstances of the problem because it'srun 10 or 20 times it sort of knows whatto expect um you know you basically gofrom a workflow that the very first timeit runs maybe is 80% reliable to onethat's 90% reliable to one that's 95%reliable one that's 97% reliable onethat's 98% reliable and so on and so onand so on and so forth until it's like99.25% or something. And maybe this isthe theoretical limit that you reach.All right, let's build a lead genen flowstart to finish using everything thatI've talked about so far. You rememberhow earlier we created a lead generationworkflow? Well, what if instead of justusing one cloud instance to generate it,we used multiple cloud instances togenerate the lead generation workflow inparallel. not only would be able togenerate higher quality lead generationworkflows, we'd be able to create thingsthat are most likely better because weare able to search more opportunitiesand options. If that doesn't make senseto you, I'm just going to copy and pastethe same thing that I pasted in here.Instead of three best approaches, I'llsay five best approaches, I'll say becomprehensive and give me all possibleoptions. And then instead of publiclyavailable information, I'll say HVACcompanies in Texasto get me a list of B2B leads and theiremails.Okay, great. Once I give this parentagent some room to think, what I'm goingto do is I'm then going to open up abunch of additional clawed codeinstances. So, new,new,new,new. So, we're going to have five intotal. What I'm going to do is I'm justgoing toset things up so we could see them all.Next, I'm going to provide somescaffolding. So, I'm just going to say,"Hey, your task is to build a leadgeneration workflow according to thebelow details." I'm giving similar tasksto five other agents. Since you'reoperating the same workspace, uh tominimize the probability of a conflict,do all your work in a new tmp/ test3folder. And then what I'm going to do isI'm just going to feed in all of this.So, I'm going to say boomboomboomboom.And then boom. And now I'm actually justgoing to run all of thesesimultaneously.What's cool is this is going to createnew folders inside of this TMP which arenot going to interfere with our otherdirectives, our execution scripts. I cannow remove this top level script herefor simplicity. And now it's going to gothrough and just create all of these.Not all of these are at the exact samelevel obviously, but um you know thistest two directory structure and thetest 4 uh when they get created they'regoing to just do their work in there. Soin this way I'm capable of exploring alarge number of options in a very shortperiod of time. I mean obviously I cantake a brief highle look at like one ofthese things and say okay this one ismost likely uh the highest probabilityof working but it's much easier if Ijust explore them and then what I do isanytime I run into a hiccup with one ofthese flows I just take a look at whatthe hiccup is and if the hiccup is likeso big that it would be a pain in my assto deal with then I just drop that andthen I don't continue. Then for thesurvivors, um, once I have like a prettygood-look workflow, I'll test them allside by side, ask them to go do ascrape, and then once I've done thescrape, I can just compare and contrastresults. What's really sweet is when allthese things are done, I can sometimescombine the best of each, and then I cansay, "Hey, build a unified leadgeneration workflow that combines thebest of X, Y, and Z." And then it'll,you know, find 30% of leads with oneapproach, 30% of leads with the otherapproach, 30% of the leads with a thirdapproach, and so on and so forth.Anecdotally, it feels really cool to beable to manage and orchestrate this manysimultaneous builders. I don't usuallydo five at a time, but I just wanted todemonstrate that you can explore a verylarge search space in a very shortperiod of time. So, after a few minutes,these are now beginning to finish. Theone on the left hand side has tested thepipeline with a full batch. Just goingto take a peek. See, we've now generatedfour of these files. We then have ourpipeline summary, and now we just needto enter some API keys essentially. Now,the issue is I've yet to give it aGoogle Places API key or a Hunter APIkey. So, I'll just say, "Could you setup the Google API key for me?" I don'thave Hunter, but I do have an emailfinder. Please do this instead. Overhere, Apollo.Okay. And then one of these wanted asales navigator URL for HVAC companies.So, I'm just going to go HVAC. And thengeography. Why don't we just go Texasbecause I think that's what that was.Rest of this looks pretty reasonable.It's 4,000 results. I just want a reallyreally like simple one. So, I'm justgoing to go change jobs 54. That way, weshould only get 54. Go back here andthen I'll feed in the URL.I then see an Apollo API key. Yes,Apollo API key. It's then going to gothroughand give me instructions on one of myAPI keys. So, I'm going to head overhere to Google Places API. What I wantis the Places API new apparently. So,I'm going to enable this. And now it'sjust a process of getting API keys foreverything really.Copying the API key. Just going to pastethat in there. This is now testing. Thisis going to test. This is now testing.And then we just have these two overhere which are in the process ofbuilding. This here ran into an issuewith one of the scrapers. So, it'sdecided to pivot and then use an AppifyAPI token. That's cool. I don't mindthat. This here on the left is now doingsome debugging and so on and so forth.That's okay. I don't need to be a partof this. All I'm doing is I'm justoverseeing. And if any one of theseworkers needs me for anything, I'llprovide it. All right. And we are justtesting across the board. We got 50leads running for most of these tests.Some of them are 10. That's okay. I'mseeing this task over here is runninginto some issues. Namely, the Apollo APIkey that I provided earlier was for atotally free account. So, it doesn'tlook like I can it can actually go andenrich them. This one here on the leftlooks like it's pretty solid. So, it'ssince found a verified email address.That's pretty cool. I did uh no workhere. I just let it run. This over hereis doing a batch email scrape. And thisright over here is now running apipeline test with a fixed client. I'veactually forgotten what's going on overhere on the left. So I'll say describewhat is occurring top to bottom. So thisis scraping the Google Places API forterms like HVAC contractors, heatingcontractors. It's going across 50 Texand cities. Then it gives me a big listof leads. It's then enriching withemails before exporting to GoogleSheets. So, that's pretty cool. Let'srun this on a test of 50. Meanwhile,over here on the right, we did run it ona test of 50, and it looks like we endedup with 26 email addresses. That'spretty badass. I should note that notall of these are valid. I'm seeing hereone of them is for somebody that worksat Neurolink. So, probability of thatbeing a valid lead is kind of off. Um,I'm going to want to double check that.So, I'm going to go back here and I'llsay, I noticed one of the leads was forNeurolink. How are these filters? Arethey super accurate? Make sure to doublecheck. Meanwhile, this one over here onthe lefth hand side is doing someenrichment. This is now actually testingto see how many of these leads are HVACrelated. So, we're seeing a bunch ofthese are HVAC related. A bunch of theseare not HVAC related. So, uh the searchthat we're going to be providing here ispresumably going to have to be a littlebit more specific. I can't just like,you know, head over to LinkedIn SalesNav, copy and paste something with aterm HVAC, and then have it work 100% ofthe time. Okay. on the right hand side.This is now giving me some highlevelinstructions on how I can uh you know dothe search better. So that's nice. HVACand refrigeration equipmentmanufacturing. Why don't I actually goahead and just do this? So I'm going toremove this keyword HVAC. And what Iwant to do is click industry.Go down here.I see HVAC right over there. I'm goingto include that. This is 341 results. Sothen I'm just going to copy this andpaste this back in. Let's run a test on50. Cool. Cool. Cool. Looks like thislead flow here worked really well. 18out of 20 businesses had websites. 13out of 20 had emails. Meanwhile, wehappen to get Satia Nadella, the CEO ofMicrosoft's email over here. That'salways fun. Okay, cool. And now we havea whole list of steps right over here inthe middle. So, that's awesome. Gives mea brief description of what's going on.And yeah, I mean, I like this. So, whydon't I actually see a result? Where arethe leads? Looks like it's going to findme the leads. Text businesses withemails. Then it has them all over here.This is cool. So hopefully it's clear atthis point. I mean I could do prettymuch whatever I wanted, right? And likewe've actually gone through and exploreda tremendous amount of search space in avery short period of time. I could forinstance just um send the same messageto all five. Hey, show me the results ina Google sheet. You know, I could thenstandardize the test and just ask all ofthem to do 20 leads simultaneously andthen I could just have them reallyquickly test to see which one deliversme the highest degree of accuracy on theleads. Um I could also disqualify acouple. Don't really like this one. Imean like it it's working. It just foundme three. uh with verified emails, butI'm seeing that it's using an Apolloendpoint, which isn't 100% right. Umit's kind of crazy because we're notsupposed to be able to use Apollo inthis way. We should be having to pay afair amount of money. And you know, Ithink there are a lot of things thatrealistically anybody could do. Youcould also just use all five of these,but yeah, I just wanted to show you guyswhat that looks like. So, what I'm goingto do is I'm just going to pretend thatI've now selected three and I'm going tosay excellent. turn this into directivesor merge these directives executionswith the main branch your approach onethen update everything to ensure thatthe file paths etc are correct that'sactually really cool I wasn't expectingthis to do anything with Apollo um Imean I fed it in my API key which isfree but uh yeah normally they don'tallow you to see any of that and finallyit ended up finishing and it sincemerged my directives with the maindirectives folder. So I actually havethe Texas SOS Legen directly here. WhatI could do now is I could test it. Icould rerun it. I could optimize it byjust asking it to do things faster andfaster and faster. And yeah, I was ableto accurately assess that this is theflow that I wanted in light of fiveother ones. Total cost to this was nomore time than it would have taken me todo the first. Sure, I did spend some ofmy um in this case Claude Max planusage, although keep in mind that we'retalking cents on the dollar here. I alsospent a few dollars on Google PlacesAPI. You know, I would have spent a fewdollars over here. I spent a few HTTPcalls over here and then, you know, someAmpify tokens over here. Realisticallythough, this allows you to do 5x thetests for like just a couple of dollarsper workflow build. Way cheaper thananything um that N8, make.com or Zapierwould have charged you just for likedevelopment and testing costs alone. Andwe get to do it through self annealingand have a very robust reliable workflowto boot. So, how do you actually improvethese workflows over time? And when Isay this, I mean practically. Like, howdo you actually cut through the noiseand then do this thing in a way that isconsistent and reliable? Well, you justask. I actually literally just say, canyou make this faster? Can you make thischeaper? Over and over and over and overagain, like 30 times. I say, list 10approaches to make this thing cheaper.List 20 approaches to make this thingfaster. Most of the approaches will notwork, but I will use my human judgment.And then after it opens up and gives me20 possible opportunities, I then justpick one that I think makes the mostsense. And then we proceed with that.Then I just repeat the process over andover and over again until my workflow isnow significantly faster andsignificantly more optimized. That said,cuz I think a lot of people haveprobably stumbled on this, um, I do havea rule and my rule is the order ofmagnitude rule. I don't actually do thisanymore unless I can get at least a 10times improvement in a key metric. Forinstance, time, cost, or accuracybecause a workflow running in 3 minutesversus 2 minutes, well, technically it'sa 33% improvement or whatever, it's notactually meaningfully better for me. andthe amount of time that I take toimplement it multiplied by theintroduced error risk by doing what istypically an approach that trades offtime, money or accuracy for speedagainst each other means that I'musually losing. If you think about it,it's basically what's the metric wewant? We want like time, right? And sothe degree to which the time gets betteris sort of related to the degree towhich maybe the cost and the accuracy godown. And so the amount of time that Ispend on this I in addition to like theintroduced error rate and stuff likethis means that this only really makessense to do if there's a very clear pathto making your flow 10 times better.What's an example of this? Um I used toscrape tons of leads using a serialapproach and I found that it tookforever. My serial approach wassomething like you know 20 minutes for2k leads. If you do the math on thatthat's like I don't know 100 leads aminute or so. Um, I came through and Itried optimizing the hell out of theserial approach with like every way way,shape, and form that I could. I triedlike changing the compute that I wasusing. I tried changing like the Ampifyactors I was using. I tried changinglike the API requests that I was makingto Google Sheets and stuff like that.And I was only really able to get thisdown to maybe 15 minutes. That is like a25% improvement in time of course, but alot of the time this is even mybottleneck. Like it doesn't actuallymatter if it takes 15 minutes or 20minutes because I'm not utilizing theleads 100%. Anyway, what I ended upfinding was I ended up finding anapproach that batch parallelized them.So sent instead of um 2k leads for 20minutes, it basically sent 100 leads ata time 20 times and then it finished inapproximately 1 minute. Um this forexample is a 20 times improvement. Thisis something that I'd actually do. Umthat actually worked. But this wholelike I don't know this whole like uhdetour or rabbit hole thing was just atotal waste of my time because thisturned the flow into an unreliable mess.So my rule is I basically just like Idon't make small optimizations anymorebecause they reduce accuracy andreliability for marginal gains. I wouldonly do this on something that Iactually see there being an order ofmagnitude possible improvement. What aresome examples? It's like moving fromsoftware encoding to hardware encoding.You don't need to know what that means.Just make sure that when you ask themodel and you see words like that, it'slike okay, I should probably use thehardware encoding. Parallelizing orusing what's called like multiplethreads or using multiple serviceworkers simultaneously. These are thingsthat usually do provide like an order ofmagnitude jump. Um, sometimes you canlike fundamentally change the order ofoperations in a workflow. Uh, but ingeneral, unless the model expects thatthis is going to provide at least a 10xboost, I don't really recommend doingit. What is really cool is that everyworkflow that you build does become apermanent asset in your library. And Imean this both in the way of directivesand execution scripts as well. Yourlibrary ends up infinitely reusable. Ifyou think about it, you could open upany workspace in any IDE or agent model.You could also copy directives andexecution scripts over to anybody else'sworkspace like your friends or yourcolleagues. You could put it on GitHubwith like GitHub code spaces, somethingI'm going to talk about soon. You couldreuse automations the exact same waythat you do them in, you know, drag anddrop no code tools like naden, make.com,or gum loop, but you just do that withnatural language instead. Yourblueprints, if it makes sense now, isjust like a bunch of words on a page,which are much, much more portable. Andover time, your ID will become basicallya giant treasure chest that you candeploy anytime you want, anywhere youwant. So, for instance, what my librarycan do right now is it can do automatedlead scraping, automated emailenrichment, automated personal replieson campaigns that I run because we'repredominantly like a cold email agency.I can initiate high quality voice agentcalls. I literally just say, "Hey, callthis person. Hey, I want you to callpeople on this list. Hey, I want you tosplit to like 20 20 uh threads and thencall 20 people." I could do automatedproposal generation. I could do slidedeck creation that actually matches mytone of voice and it looks pretty good.Um, and all of it is customized to how Icommunicate. It is not generic AI slop.Um, so it's pretty cool. Obviously, Ididn't build all this stuff overnight.It took me a fair amount of time, fewdays, well, a few weeks now to really uhput the finishing touches on all these.But yeah, I mean, at the end of the day,this thing can basically be yourterminal for life. A real example frommy actual day-to-day was automating myschool posts. So, I kept forgetting topost a weekly community call thread. Idid it three weeks in a row, which isreally embarrassing, especially becauseI uh like to make it clear that if Idon't do like the foundationalfundamental things that I promise peopleI will do, then why why the hell am Ientitled to their money? So, I gave abunch of people refunds. Um, I asked myagent, Claude Opus 4.5, at the time ifautomating this was straightforward. Ihad never even really thought of thisbefore, but I was basically just like,"Hey, I keep forgetting about thisthing. Man, I really suck. Any ideas?"And then it's just like, "Oh, yeah, wecould totally automate that." So, itwent and found a reex uh pre-existingschool system that I had built um whichjust handled like the authentication andthe logging in. Then it built a simplescraping spec and it figured it out inlike 3 minutes flat and I automated myschool post in 3 minutes flat using asimple schedule timer which I'll talkabout later. So now it just happens forme which is incredible and it's supereasy and it's super straightforward. Umyou can solve so many tiny littleproblems in your life using tools likethis. So once you've built likeindividual workflows that work reallywell, then you eventually transition towhat I call metadirectives. So at theend of this, what you will essentiallyhave is you will essentially have okaygiant families of workflowsthat do various things. For instance, Iwill have like a marketing workflowumbrella. And this is a family ofworkflows that does things like, youknow, scrape leads, create ad copy, youknow, do uh voicemail drops, I don'tknow, whatever the heck, right? And sowhat this umbrella workflow, thismetadirective does is it just ties themtogether. So, for instance, if you havea bunch of separate workflows for, Idon't know, a welcome email, the setupof a workspace, and the copyrighting ofan email, this is sort of like anonboarding thing, right? So, you couldjust tile all these together with a newclient workflow that just does all themin sequence. I recommend storing thedirectives separately in order to makethis happen. I don't recommend just likehaving a giant new client workflowthat's like four quadrillion linesbecause it's much easier and moremaintainable for the model to load onlywhat it needs in context at any oneparticular time. But this becomes reallypowerful because they just chain all ofthe existing capabilities together.Instead of you having to go like 1 2 3,you know, you have like four or fiveworkflows. What you do is you just turnthat into one workflow and then everytime you want all of these done insequence, you just call the bigworkflow, not individual workflows. Italso means that when you prompt themodel and use it as like an assistant orwhatever, you could just say, "Hey, Iwant you to do X, Y, and Z onboardingworkflow." And then you can just stepaway, have a freaking nice cup of tea orsomething like that and come back andeverything's okay. You don't actuallyhave to get like interrupted all thetime. And yeah, when you combine thatwith the infinite reusability of theseworkflows, this becomes really, reallypowerful because then you can just sendyour new client workflow to the otherthree account managers on your team andthen they can just run it every timethey get a new client. or as I'm goingto show you later, maybe you couldattach that to a schedule trigger orsome sort of web hook so that it justruns autonomously without you. Hopefullythat makes sense. Now, we're startingone of my favorite topics in directiveorchestration execution and just agenticworkflows in general, and that's thisidea of self annealing. First, let'stalk about annealing in a general sense.Annealing is the process of heating apiece of metal and then slowly coolingit down. Basically what happens ispreviously the molecules in the metalare kind of all over the place. But whathappens when you heat up a metal is theyend up actually moving to like theirhighest or rather lowest energy stateand they end up looking kind of like acrystal lattice which is really badass.And then what we do is we cool it downvery quickly which then hardens this andsets it into you know some really strongrobust piece of metal. Blacksmiths andso on have been doing this for many manygenerations. It removes a bunch of theseinternal weird misconfigurations of theatoms and it creates a really strongmore stable structure. So people do thiswith swords and you know uh uh devicesand and pieces of metals all the time inreal life. It's cool as hell. And todayI wanted to talk about a similar conceptin agentic workflows. So what if we hadthe ability to stress test our workflowsas well to make them significantly moreresilient? Turns out we do. When webuild instruction sets, prompts ordirectives for our agents. I want you tothink of them as looking something likewhat we see on the left hand side here.In short, these are pretty rough. Wehave some idea of how we want theworkflow to develop. Maybe we want it tostart here and then go over here and goover here, here, and then here. But wedon't really have uh uh you know astrong mechanism to do it. All we reallyhave so far is just an outline. Youknow, when we when you say step one, doX, step two, do Y, and step three, do Z,all this really is is just a couple ofbullet points on a piece of paper. Andeven if you have an agent like produce aworkflow for you uh in a directive form,it's not super tight. What self-annealing does is basically every singletime we run into some error or issue oropportunity for improvement, the systemreinforces that flow. And so if this onthe left hand side is what we kind of doon the first day, this on the right handside is after maybe 60 days of you usingan agentic workflow. Instead of it justbeing this small little piss ant line onthe left, we have a super strong battlehardened protocol. You know, every oneof these little shields is some form ofretry logic. You know, uh it's so muchbeefier. There's like validation stepsthat that go into place. Maybe you havehuman in the loop at specific steps youdidn't realize that you needed beforeand so on and so forth. And so you knowif I'm somebody designing a workflowdespite the fact that I start over hereon the left hand side at the end of theself- annealing process my workflowactually becomes super super robust andvery resilient as well. So that conceptis self- annealing instead of brittlesystems that break every time that youerror out like with you know nadn ormake or whatever. When you build thesesystems they just strengthen over time.The secret ingredient is adding a levelof thoughtful error handling to yoursystem prompt. And the whole idea iswhen you do this, it will learn and itwill adapt. Problems essentially stopbeing like problems in the error senseand they start being opportunities foryou and the model to build edge cases umerror handling and sort of unexpected uhuh steps in that you just didn't reallyunderstand the first time because a lotof the time the only way to know is justby doing a bunch. So when you enter theself annealing loop essentially whathappens is there will be some sort oferror. Immediately after you willdiagnose where the error is coming fromthen you will attempt some sort of fix.After the fix you will then update. Soyou'll actually update the workflow theexecution script itself and then you'lljust rotate over and over and over andover and over again. And then finallyeventually this stops erroring out rightand then it becomes successful. And whenit becomes successful, all we do is wejust do some sort of documentationupgrade. And so we let the directiveknow, hey, you know, this is a commonissue that previously used to happen alot. We've since reinforced against it,and it's a lot better. And then the nexttime the loop uh fixes, and let's saythis eventually goes into some sort oferror. Well, guess what happens? We justrun the same thing. We go through anerror, then we diagnose, then we fix, orattempt to fix, I should say, and thenwe update. And then we just loop overand over and over again until we can nolonger loop. Okay, so this is reallylike that four-step process. The agentwill continue until the operationsucceeds or it hits like some superunfixable wall, just something that likeactually requires a human being evenwhen something is unfixable. You'll findthat an agent often will find a creativeworkound. So like for instance, if oneof the things that you asked for is likeyou asked for 50 leads or something ormaybe I always use leads cuz you knowI'm just super in that business. Butlet's just take a step back here and sayyou are looking for like 50 blog postson a subject, right? And your whole jobis you want to like take these blogposts and then use them to createsomething. Your definition of done isyou get 50 blog posts from your scraper.Well, let's say the scraper only returns40. This loop will start and continue.And maybe the reality is there justaren't any more blog posts on theinternet about this. Well, your modelfinds a creative workaround by maybechanging one of the filters in how itpitched the first thing. and it lets yougo from 40 to 50 technicallyaccomplishing what you were looking fordespite the fact that it is afundamentally different process. Nowyou're using maybe a different set offilters and then although it didn't work100% it worked 80% the model will thengive you a notification or ping you orsomething to be like hey this mostlyworked know if this filter is okay too.So then you provide some feedback orwhatever and then it actually cementsthe fact that this filter is okay toopreventing it from ever happening again.And in that way every cycle will leavethe system a lot more robust andreliable than it was before. So, as abusiness owner, somebody that's beendoing stuff like this for the betterpart of the last decade, I like thinkingabout agents and agentic workflows asbasically many employees. And inbusiness, when you hire a bunch ofpeople, you quickly realize that you canbin human beings into two camps. Youcould have employee A, who I'm going toconsider the blocker, and you can haveemployee B, who I'm going to considerpretty self-capable. So, in thesituation of employee A, anytime thatthey have a problem, and I've hired alot of people like this, that problem isnow your problem. So, hey boss, I trieddoing XYZ, couldn't make it happen.Could you help me with this? Meaning,this is the sort of person that cannotproceed without your intervention. Everytime they run into an issue, well, nowit's your issue as well. All work grindsto a halt, not just theirs. This is thesort of person that makes the samemistakes over and over and over again,doesn't seem to learn, and ultimatelyyou become the bottleneck for theirproductivity. They almost require you tomicromanage them in order to succeed.I'm sure there's some business ownershere that are watching this video. Thishappens very often and this is one oflike the easiest and simple tells thatyou probably shouldn't hire a personthat you know runs into issues and can'tactually self-mmitigate them. Employee Bon the other hand is a star performer.They encounter the same problems butthey have a simple SOP. The SOP is welleven if I don't know how to solve theproblem. I'm going to try on my ownfirst and so they'll only escalate whenit's absolutely necessary. They respectyour time. They document solutions whenthey run into them that your team sothat your team never ever hits the sameissue twice. They make a a statement inyour Slack. Hey guys, ran into XYZproblem. Just wanted you all to knowthat you could fix this by doing XYZsolution. Sometimes they even run aquick session to teach others what theylearned. Now, if I gave you a choicebetween these two, which one would youchoose? Obviously, you'd choose employeeB. And I think most business ownerswould too. Well, self annealing agenticworkflows behave like employee B. Theydon't behave like employee A. And so,we're giving them a level of autonomythat I think a lot of people previouslywould have considered insane.But I think the definition of insane isgoing to change pretty quickly as thesemodels get more and more intelligent.How do you actually enable this coolprocess? It really just boils down to asmall set of instructions and a prompt.You just add to your cloud MD, GeminiMD, agents MD, whatever a key thing thatjust changes its opinion uh essentiallylike the default mode of problemsolving. And the default mode of problemsolving with these programming agents isusually, hey, if I can't do something,return it to the user and ask them whatthey'd like me to do. which makes sensebecause for the most part this thesesorts of models are used predominantlyin like enterprise coding applicationsnow where like a small change canactually result in a big downstreamproblem but like if we're buildingsimple agentic workflows that aremodular and like unit testable uh andthen we're just using them in our IDElike that doesn't apply to us.So all we say is something along thelines of hey when you encounter an errorfirst diagnose it then fix it thenupdate your scripts and directives tohandle similar errors in the future. NowI always add is something like try superduper hard before escalating to theuser. What happens over time is theinitial workflow will look verydifferent on the initial implementationthan it does you know several weekslater. Retry logic in instances whereone-off failures occur will be addedautomatically. It'll do things like umself retry loops. It'll do things likeum if you guys are in the programmingspace, you'll know there's stuff likeexponential backoff.There's various forms of error handlinglike logging and so on and so forth. Andbecause it is hyper optimized to programreally well and understands these thingsoutside of the box, it'll just do themfor you. Which means edge cases that younever anticipated get handled as youragent encounters them. Efficiencyimprovements occur organically. Youknow, bulk endpoints, parallelization,multiple workers. If there's like a arequest that you made initially in yourdirective, I want this to occur under 5minutes after you run this every singletime. Just make sure to like see howlong it took. If it takes more than 5minutes, IDate solutions. If you havesimple little blockers in there ordecision or router points uh in there,agents will naturally do a lot of thisstuff for you, which is really cool. Andthen obviously you can also just ask,"Hey, make this thing better. Make thisthing better. Make this thing better.Make this thing better." In this way,your system continuously optimizesitself without any form of ongoingintervention. Uh which is the coolestthing ever in practice. That said, whenyou guys start getting really deep intoself- analing and you have workflowsthat do a lot of their work themselves,safety becomes a much bigger portion ofthe conversation than it ever wasbefore. Like with N8N and Make.comworkflows, the biggest potential issuewas basically that you just like turnedit on and you forgot to turn it off andthen it just continued consuming yourcredits or operations or whatever longerthan you realistically wanted it to,which charges costs and so on and soforth. But most APIs, most systems, andmost automation platforms now have somesort of built-in detection for this, orat least thresholds that you could set.So, it's not that big of a deal. Butwith fully autonomous AI, especially AIthat were proposing giving totalbypassed permission access to a system,safety becomes much more important. Iwas just reading this thread the otherday where somebody let Gemini basicallyrun autonomously for I think it was like2 days or something like that and youknow it checked in and it had some coollittle workflow loop where it did thisbut then when they went back to it theyrealized that they didn't put it in acontainer. They basically gave it fullsystem access and then it like deletedtheir whole like C or D drive. Anybodythat's in the know, you delete yourwhole CR D drive, your computer'sbasically screwed. You know, you have todo like a fresh install. So that's onyour server, right? The thing is you'realso giving this thing access to theinternet. And so if you have cookies orAPI keys or whatever, I'm sure you canimagine even if there's like a 0.1%risk. If you just stack up that 0.1%over the course of a very long period oftime, okay, this is just uh let's sayyou know 99.9 raised to the 1,000operations. At the end of this process,there is only a 36% chance that themodel will actually do what youinitially intended it to do. Despite thefact that on an individual basis, everystep was 99.9% um secure and logical.The more steps you have, the basicallythe larger those error bars become likeI've drawn a few times now. So, whatthis means is we really do have to addat least some sort of uh uh guard railtowards the model so that it doesn'tscrew things around completely. Now,there are a few simple ones that I do.My processes are never a thousand steps,right? I mean, I might be dealing with afive or 10step process. So, I typicallydon't have to go much further than this,but if you want really autonomouslongunning agents, um you need todevelop what are called harnesses forthem, which I cover later. Butbasically, here are four things that Iwould always do. I would always ask themodel to confirm beyond making API callsabove a cost threshold. So, a lot ofAPIs have the ability to check usage.So, I'd actually add like a little stepin there that says, "Hey, make sure tocheck the usage. If you've spent morethan, you know, $5 in the last like fewminutes, then you should not continuedoing this. You should let me know, sendme a notification, whatever. Hey, nevermodify credentials or API keys unless Iexplicitly tell you to." That's valuablebecause a lot of the time it'll dothings like reformat your API key.Sometimes it'll delete API keys that itthinks it doesn't need anymore.Sometimes, you know, that'll be a bigpain in your ass because you have to goback to the platform then reinstitute anAPI key. Never remove secrets out of ENVfiles or hardcode them into thecodebase. Models are really good at thisalready, but I always just like havingthis explicit because if I try and sharesomething with somebody at any point intime and it has like my enthropic APIkey or whatever, then these guys now ownmy ass. And finally, although this doeseventually run into a limit, I have themodel log all self modifications as achange log at the bottom of thedirective. What this does is itbasically allows me to take a look atany point in time be like, "Okay, solike what was the sequence of of events?What was the order of operations?"essentially. Um, I do this in likeGitHub format. So, it's sort of like acommit if you guys know what that means.And it's a really simple just like oneparagraph. Uh, well, a lot of the timeit's just like a one sentenceexplanation of the changes that we made,how the changes worked and whatever. Andthe reason why this is valuable isbecause like if you're not using versioncontrol like a lot of people will not beusing uh and I know that for a fact atleast you have like a change log thatthe model can use to go through and seehm before this I was doing X and thatwas working okay. Then I tried doing Yand Y is working not so good. So let'smove back to X. You should also justaccept that some rules will occasionallybe broken. That's just how these thingsare. We know that agents areprobabilistic at this point. 100%compliance and everything is just notrealistic and it's not achievable. Sodespite our best efforts, there willalways be some sort of edge casefailure. Although it is getting a lotbetter with time, obviously this is justa trade-off that we have to acceptanytime we're using AI. I mean, AImultiplies our leverage by thousandsupon thousands upon thousands of times,right? But in doing so, it alsomultiplies um accuracy or or reliabilityissues as well. Again, it's one of thoselike even if our human workflows are99.9% accurate, obviously if you runthem enough times, let's say a thousandtimes, these errors compound and thenyou end up with a total process that'sonly maybe 36% successful.[gasps and sighs] Well, a human beingcan typically spot that earlier. Butalso, a human being typically justdoesn't do a thousand operations in arow, right? There'll usually be somesort of check mark or guardrail. Withagents, you could do a thousandoperations like this. So obviouslydespite the fact that like our accuracylevels are still really high becausewe're giving them so much autonomy andbecause at the end of the day they dolack some context that human beings haveand you know a lot of people would arguethey're not as intelligent as like themost intelligent human being. This thingis just going to occur and there's justnothing you can do about it. So I planfor graceful recovery not perfectprevention and I'd recommend you do too.Cool. Let's chat about using theseworkflows. And I just want to make thisclear that this program is both aboutbuilding workflows. Then it's also usingsaid workflows. And the two are not thesame. Building a workflow versus using aworkflow are two very different things.When I build a workflow, I am having myagent essentially be a programmer forme. When I use my workflows, that's sortof DO, right? The directiveorchestration execution idea. My agentis just executing a sequence of stepsthat a previous iteration of an agentbuilt. So these agentic workflows aremostly about the using side of things,right? like building them while isimportant and stuff like that, it's justa very small part of actually living inyour ID and getting things done. And tothat point, I have an important thing tosay. The interface to everything is nowjust a text box. So my actual day-to-daywork occurs almost entirely now througha single text box. It occurs through,you know, anti-gravity or Visual StudioCode. And I just have the agent doeverything that I have createdpainstakingly over the course of thelast few weeks using the tools that I'veI've set up. So, I'll have it do thingslike generate, you know, my YouTubethumbnails. I'll have it do things likeuh generate scripts and stuff like thatthat I could send to people. I have itdo things like generate pitch decks sothat I could send to people that areinterested in working with me, generateproposals. I do things like analyze mytranscripts and stuff like that. But Idon't do it in individual softwareapplications, okay? I don't do it inFireflies and Google Drive and Panda Doeand, you know, Quiller and all theseother platforms. I literally just do itall through a single text interface. Andthis is just the way that high leveragework is now going to be done, at leastuntil we come up with a betteralternative, which may come in sometime. But I wouldn't hold out on it. Fora lot of people, a single text box feelslike a downgrade. Cuz if you think aboutit, we've spent decades learningsoftware through visual interfaces andmenus. And GUIs, graphical userinterfaces, are basically the currentstandard. If you contrast that to typingand stuff like that, a lot of peoplealso consider it really slow and toughcompared to, you know, clicking buttonsand whatnot that they're used to, right?Sometimes people type at 50, 60, 70words per minute. I have some familymembers that can't type it more than 20words per minute. Obviously, that isvery slow relative to dragging stuffaround and clicking buttons and stufflike that. So, there is no obvious rightway to do this. It's very open-ended andunfamiliar, and I'm sure eventuallywe'll converge on like a really coolvisual thing that combines the best ofboth worlds. But there are ways to makedoing a lot more natural and efficient,which I want to talk about. The first isjust to switch to using voicetranscription tools. In case you guysdidn't know, you can now just saywhatever you want to your computer, andthere's like a 99.9% chance that it willunderstand that and be able to turn thatinto text. The reason why this isvaluable is because the average typingspeed is 50 to 70 words per minute,which is really slow bandwidth. Theaverage speaking speed is 150 to 200words a minute, which is three to fourtimes faster. You guys have beenlistening to me talk at between 150 to200 words a minute on average. SometimesI'm a little bit slower, maybe aroundlike 130. Other times I'm a little bitfaster, maybe around 220 or so. But ingeneral, I'm speaking maybe three timesfaster than most human beings type,which is very, very important. Nowadays,models are pretty smart. So, you don'teven need to really organize yourthoughts in a hyperspecific way. Likeback when I was using GPT3, okay, backin the uh the good old days, you had tobe extraordinarily precise and concisewith your prompts because even 10additional tokens could really reallyscrew up the intelligence and thesteerability of the model. Nowadaysthough, I could have prompts that arethousandword text dumps where I just I'min my car driving somewhere. I click thevoice transcribe tool and then I justtalk. And it does a really good job atturning that into something useful. Thehighest bandwidth way of communicatingwith computers, at least right now, isthe following. Nobody really talks aboutthis, but you transcribe your text asinput, which gets you to route 200 wordsa minute. So my input bandwidth is now200 WPM. And then you don't like have itsay stuff to you like you do with like Idon't know the chatbt voice call orwhatever. Instead, you just read as theoutput because most people can actuallyread between 300 to 500 words per minuteif you skim. And most people will skimin some way, shape, or form. Some peoplecan go much faster to like a thousand.And in that way, you have like 200 wordper minute input, 1,000 word per minuteoutput, you know, in terms of skimmingto relevant materials. Um, the old wayof doing this is like 50 to 70. And thenif you're doing voice, it'll be, youknow, like 200. So, what we're doinghere is we're basically quadrupling ourinput um at at at both sides of this. Sothis is like a 3 to 5x and this is likea 5x at least. So maybe like a quadrupleI would say. Um I would recommend justdoing that moving forward. It's waysimpler. The only situation which Iactually type stuff now is if I likeabsolutely have to because there is somehypersp specific file that I need toreference on my computer somewhere. Andeven then I'll usually just like copythe name and paste it manually. Fromhere on out when I say the word promptassume I'm just generating all this withmy voice. And then you guys have alsoseen me do this on multiple demos. Butum I will proceed to assume that youguys know that. How do you actually useworkflows? Well, it's really simple.Hopefully you guys have already seen. Wejust ask for it. There's no need tomemorize the exact name of thedirective. Agent typically knows thedirectives exist because we've includedthat in our system prompt and it'll scanfor matches automatically. You do ofcourse need to provide some data umspecifically that your directives inputschema requires. So if your directivesays, hey, you know, I want you toinclude uh I don't know the name of aperson or something like this and weneed the name of the person in order togenerate some form of proposal orsomething. And if you say, "Hey, just dothe thing." It'll look at it and belike, "Hey, you're currently lackingthis input." So, like, "What's the nameof the person you wanted? Let me knowand I'll I'll create that for you."Really, this is just like ordering food,right? Kitchen needs to know what dishany modifications or whatever. You can'tjust say, "Hey, get me food." You needto be like, "Hey, you know, can you canI have like the hamburger with a side offries, please?" Like, there's a level ofspecificity here. You don't have to gosuper deep, but you also don't need tooverthink it. I'm pretty specific withmy requests that I know have specificinput methods. So, like in the case ofgetting me some leads, I can absolutelyjust say, "Hey, get me some leads today,obviously, it's going to ask me a bunchof questions and then I'm going to haveto like feed those questions in and thenI can kind of mess about with mydirective, right?" So, I much rathersay, "Hey, scrape 200 HVAC companies inTexas, then verify the emails,personalize them, and then give me theGoogle sheet." This takes, you know, 2seconds longer than the first version,but because I'm at the helm of the ship,I'm able to steer it into a much uh morestraight line direction to what it isthat I want. The more steps you put inan AI's hands, the more chances forerrors that it has. Remember that errorrates multiply. If I had, you know, a90% chance doing the first thingcorrectly and then a 90% chance doingthe second thing correctly, um, youknow, I would have a, I don't know, Iguess a 081% total chance. Ideally,we're dealing with higher rates, but letme just show you how that transforms,right? If I give it everything I needimmediately, I now have this is a 90%.Let's say, you know, in the first one, Isay get me leads. Well, what happens? Itinterprets my request as saying, okay,we need to get some leads, so let's goto the directive or whatever. and thenit says we don't have any leads. HeyNick, can you send me some leads? Andthen I need to provide it leads and thenit goes through another process and thengives me a total uh success rate oflet's say 81%. Here if I just say youknow hey scrape me 200 HVAC companies inTexas, verify their emails and so on andso forth. [gasps] It's only been onestep. So I've significantly reducedwhat's called the compound probabilityof the error. When you're specific, youalso reduce the back and forth. Itlowers your overall failure risk andthen it's just faster. So I just do itfaster that way. If you're not surewhat's available, you could just asklike, "Hey, what workflows do I have?"Um, you know, eventually after youdesign so many directives, it does startbeing a little bit overwhelming for bothyou and the model. And obviously, thereare some strategies that you could useto help accommodate that, like subagents, which we talk about later. Butfor now, just know that, you know, ifyou don't know what's available,absolutely just ask your model. Youcould ask the model to do things likerefactor your directive base. Hey, areany directives that look really similar?Are there any executions that lookreally similar? I want you to run acomprehensive refactor and everything tolike group them in ways that make sense.You obviously have a lot of freedom todo this in your own. Now, for reallycomplex workflows, I'll usually justpaste in the context rather than typingit all manually. Like um you know,rather than asking the model to do somesort of like Fireflies API request forme, I'll just like paste my calltranscript directly in. Takesapproximately the same amount of time.It's just this one is like exact andthere's no room for error. Anotherreally common request that I typicallywill do is I will like go to a websiteand I'll just like command all copyeverything and then paste it in themodel and be like, hey, you know, buildme a proposal with this website orsomething. Obviously, I could have it,hey, HTTP request this link and then itgoes through that. But, I mean, it's thesame thing, right? It takes me the sameamount of time to do that versus this.So, from the model's perspective,doesn't matter. Everything gets insertedin context the same way. Can be a bigtime saver since HTTP calls and then APIrequests and then accessing databasesand stuff like that can take some timeto set up. So, if you're using this as auser, right, you are executing yourworkflows using this orchestrator, youcan absolutely just like co-create withit. You can go on websites yourself,copy paste stuff in, it's no big deal.The next thing I wanted to do is talk alittle bit about how to peruse APIdocumentation with Agentic workflows.So, as you guys remember in a previousdemo, I built a workflow that tookLinkedIn Sales Navigator URLs, fed theminto the service vein, uh, you know, dida couple of other things, and then endedup giving me a big list of leads in aGoogle sheet. So, how exactly do we dothis sort of thing in like a reasonableway? Well, obviously we could just, youknow, tell the model, hey, I want you tobuild XYZ with Fain. But what you'llquickly realize is models will spendmaybe 50% of their time just looking upAPI documentation and another 50% of thetime like running into some sort oferror. Like for instance, if I were touse this API documentation so let mejust go over here then feed this into AIand say something like tell me aboutthis API documentation.The first thing it'll do is it'll takethe link and then it'll try accessing itusing some sort of web search tool.That's what it'll do here. The thing is,not all API docs are created equal, andso some API documentation pages don'tactually include um all of theinformation that we need in order to dowhat we need to do. Some of them don'treturn things the way that we need themto. So here it's saying the page isfairly lightweight on specifics. Nodetailed endpoint schemas, rate limits,or code examples. You need to log intotheir dashboard to add the full open APIspec with the request and responseschemas. But that's kind of weirdbecause we have all the informationright here, right? Well, that's thething. Some of these API pages only loadthrough JavaScript. So realistically,this isn't actually capable of accessingthe API docs. If I said, hey, you know,could you find the endpoints orsomething? It could eventually do so,but it probably wouldn't do so verywell.So I say, what are the API endpointshere? It's going to look for moreinformation. So it's going to look forsome spec to get more detailedinformation about the page. It's goingto run through the same thing that itjust did a moment ago, probably to nosuccess. And here you see it usesJavaScript to render the UI, which meansthe endpoints aren't actual HTML. So nowit's just starting to look and sort ofguess at what the um JSON information isfor the API. Sort of annoying, right?Doesn't actually provide thatinformation. So what else is it going todo? Well, it's going to do more. It'sgoing to start looking for otherpeople's um API docs. It'll startlooking for blog posts and stuff likethat. And I mean like this informationhere, it's not terrible or anything, butif we're clear about how long this takesand then um what sort of resources it'srequiring on our end, if I just typeback slashcontext over here, you can seenow that we've already started fillingup our message um context, right? Imean, you know, MCP is still theprevailing one because this is using thesame um series that we were usingbefore. But yeah, I mean, like messagesare already 1.4%. We haven't even doneanything yet. Imagine if this continuedoperating on its own sort of like loopfor another 30 seconds or so. Hell, weprobably get up to like 3% 4% 5% ormore. And so in order to prevent all ofthat from occurring, um, a lot of thetime for APIs, I will actually just openthe things that I want. So we wantedopen, we wanted get, and then[gasps and sighs] what else did I do?There was like a URL check right overhere. And I'll just copy all of it indirectly.These are vehins API docs list endpointsfor me. So now instead of having themodel do all of that searching itself,which if you think about it is likethat's an additional step whichcompounds error probabilities, I justcopy and pasted everything in whichmeans it's going to get everything righton the first try. It's not going to goback and forth or try and guess atvarious API endpoints or whatever. Ibasically have everything that I need.If I wanted to make a simple API call tothe post endpoint, what would that looklike in Python? Now it's actually goingthrough and then giving me all theinformation that I need. That's prettystraightforward. Okay, great. Let's doit. Now, I should contrast that with afew other APIs out there that areactually optimized directly for AI andlarge language models and agenticworkflows. So, one in particular is theAmpify API and these guys I want to sayare like a leader, but um there areother services that are catching up andthey're doing stuff like this as well.Like obviously I could feed all of thisin to AI via plain text and you know itwould do a good job, don't get me wrong,but what you'll see is that now thereactually are copy for LLM buttons up atthe top of the page. If I were to copythis for LLM, view it as markdown, openin chat, GBT, open in cloud, open inperplexity, it actually like includesinformation forAI models and I mean like this is just amarkdown version of everything we saw onthe page. Because it's marked down, it'sactually already significantly moreefficient and AI natively understandshow to traverse this. So this is a briefexample of like APIs accommodating to AImodels and agentic workflows. APIs aresort of like anticipating that agenticworkflows are going to quickly come andswallow up everything. So they're makingall of their documentation totallyavailable through like very tokenperformant, token efficient markdownlike this. So you know if I wanted tohave it check the um documentation, Iwould actually just copy thisand then I would just saytell me about this API. It wouldactually go when it would um firstaccess the page itself to grab all themarkdown data. And what's cool isdespite the fact that it's a fair amountof text, this does so very quickly. Onceit's done, it gives me a big overview.Then I can also ask follow-up questions.What kind of endpointsare most common?Okay. And as you can see, it's alreadyproviding me a bunch of information. Sothat's pretty sweet, right? You wouldnot believe how much money on theinternet is available for the taking ifyou just know how to connect APIs. Andnowadays, to be honest, you don't evenreally have to know how to connect APIs.You just need to be able to communicatethe fact that you want to connect to anAPI to a model. So if you could justsay, "Hey, here's an API. Could you likereally quickly connect to it and thensend a quick test query like XYZ andthen it does?" So, you know, you canactually swoop up a large chunk of likethe economically valuable work onfreelancing platforms, simple one-offqueries that, you know, like businessescommonly require. Hey, I'm usingXplatform, but Xplatform doesn't have aa one-click Zapier integration. How dowe connect to their API? It's so scaryand intimidating. I mean like you canactually solve that really easily notjust for yourself but for other peoplewith a tool like this. In terms of howto actually do the stuff once a workflowstarts for the first few times maybefirst 10 or 15 times I actuallyrecommend watching it work end to end.It seems like this is a big timeinvestment keeping in mind thatworkflows can take you know 30 secondsto a minute to execute. Um, I don'tthink this is anywhere near that big ofa deal because if you just watch thereasoning for a little bit for even likeone or two executions, you typicallylearn more about what's the model iscurrently and actually doing under thehood than you would if you had like 3days of autonomous flows. Uh, and so indoing so, you're very very quickly ableto iterate and make it very very good.You don't have to like stretch thatiteration process out for like weeks ormonths. What's cool too is when youwatch workflows, you get to develop asense of intuition about the reasoningthe model goes through. And I honestlythink there's probably nothing moreimportant, no better skill to developthan intuition surrounding how modelsthink as of the current date. I mean,these models are going to run oureconomy very soon and they're alreadyrunning our economy in many ways. Solike if I am going to spend some timeworking, my whole time working should bespent developing an intuition for howthese models actually function. I mean,it's also really satisfying. It's supercool just to see the model solveproblems and, you know, make logicalconclusions based off information that Iprovided it. And it's usually prettyeasy to pinpoint when the reasoning goessideways. the model will be like waitmaybe I should use this approach andthen you're looking at it you're likewell that's not the approach to usewhich means you can actuallysignificantly cut the amount of time itwould take by just like pressing X andthen pausing the run and then justsaying hey sorry it's actually Y rightway easier to do it that way and thenco-creating with that model also againlets you build that good intuition forhow your workflow is supposed to worknow if I'm handling a really longworkflow like I have a video editingworkflow whose full execution due to youknow the ffmpeg library can take like 45minutes or something I'm not going tojust sit there and watch it obviousobviously because most of it is thescript executing and then my hardwarerunning and stuff, right? So, I'll justopen an extra agent window and then I'lluse what are called background tasks.Background tasks depend on the differentmodel provider and interface that you'reusing. Claude introduced backgroundtasks a while back and I've been usingthe Claude family of models um quite abit recently. So, that's easy. What I'llthen do is I'll set up some sort of hookin my IDE to play some sort of soundwhen the thing is done. Hooks connect tospecific points in the workflow. Uh whatthat means is like if you know myworkflow takes 30 minutes and it's abackground task when it's done I canactually have my computer go duh dingand then you know tell me when the thingis completed. I'll show you guys anexample of that later. Um there's alsonative system notifications. Obviously Ijust find the sounds more reliable forgetting my attention. I get a lot ofnotes nowadays. To set up hooksdepending on the platform you justcreate a mini workflow that triggers thesounds or the animation. So you can justlike give it a cool sound that you wantand then say, "Hey, set up this up sothat when you finish operating umthere's some hook and then it ittriggers this sound and it just playsnatively on my computer because that'llhelp me direct my attention back to youand then like help you with the nextstep." Claude has really gooddocumentation on hooks. Most people thathave built hooks have done so withClaude. You can check their hook docsfor specifics. Um the common use case,as I mentioned, is to play sound whenthe workflow finishes just so you cancheck the output, verify things whichyou wanted. But you can also do thingslike play different sounds for human inthe loop steps where it's like, hey,action required type stuff. Okay, briefexample of me setting up a hook. Here'sa practical guide on setting up hooks.So, first of all, what I'm going to dois I'll say, hey, how's it going? I'dlike you to set me up a hook that playsa nice chime sound every time that oneof my agents is done with a task. Thatway, I'll know to go back to the taskbecause I normally have you alt tabbedwhile I'm doing other things.This already knows that it's a clawedcode hook feature. There are shellcommands that execute in response toevents like tool calls. So now it'sgiving me all this information. First,it's going to do some research. Thenit's going to actually write a script torun the claude code hook. All right. Andit's now adding the hooks configurationwith a little glass sound. I don't knowif you guys heard that, but that's that.It just finished. So yeah, I did justfinish. I'm going to pretend I'm alttabbed somewhere, not paying attention,but I'm not hearing the chime.So, it looks like every time it plays itdirectly, I could hear it.Okay. So, I'm going to back slash checkhooks.I'm just going to start a new Cloud Codeinstance like it's telling me to do.Hey, how's it going?Perfect. And now I hear the chime. So,it's that easy. You can now set let'ssay five of these simultaneously.One,two, three, four. Then I'll just openall these in separate tabs. Then I'mjust going to send to all of them. Writeme a funny poem.Now I will send to all. One, two, three,four, five.Nice. Now, this thing has gone throughand written me funny poems, and I got abunch of chimes, too. Hopefully, youguys could see how this thing could behelpful if you guys were working on acloud code instance withoutnotifications enabled or something likethat, uh, and then you were on anothertab. In practice, I find when you arejuggling a bunch of things and trying tostay in context, but obviously alsomonitoring or orchestrating some sort ofAI flow, um, a big chunk of the time youwill spend is literally just completelywasted time where you haven't given AIthe next instruction. So to reallyeconomize that time, simplest way to doit is just to like have some sort ofnotifying flow. Play a nice chime noiseor I don't know, you could set it up sothe claud window actually pops up everytime it's done. That way, you'll veryquickly go back to this, give it someadditional instructions, and then beable to double up on the return on yourtime. Now, when any workflow completes,you're almost always going to get adeliverable. This is a link or adocument or a summary or something.You'll also usually get some sort ofreport of what happened during theexecution. My recommendation for you isto review the output, confirm that itmeets your needs, and if it does, tellthe model. Let them know. Say, "Thisworked great." If you've had to do sometrials and some some iterations in orderto get this, let the model know thatlike this is what you want and to updatethe directive in execution unless it'salready done. So most of the time thiswill happen automatically, but it'scheap and almost free to say that everytime you get like a really really goodoutput. As I mentioned previously,individual workflows are really useful,but I actually think chaining themtogether is where the real magichappens. I always provide that umbrellaanalogy and I like how my umbrellas aregetting better and more and more umsophisticated as this course goes on. Idon't think I used to see that littlething up there. That's really badass. Umthis is like your, you know, marketingumbrella, you know, your new new clientonboarding umbrella or whatever. Whatyou do is you get all the individualworkflows that you've created, groupthem under this thing, and then nexttime you can just run all of themsimultaneously by just saying, "Hey,trigger the new onboarded clientautomation." This solves the manualhandoff process with the deliverable.Like you could build a lead scraper. Youcould build an enrichment workflow, butwhat that means is this workflow willstart and then it'll finish and say,"Hey, we're done." And then you actuallyhave to take that link and say, "Okay,now do the enrichment workflow. Oh,okay, now we're done." You have to takethat and be like, "Okay, let's actuallysend the emails. Okay, now we're done."Like much better for me just toeliminate that process completely andthen, you know, only check in once we'veactually completed the entire thing,right? Assuming that I've verified thatevery individual step does what it isthat I want it to do because otherwise,yeah, you're basically the bottleneck.And I can't tell you how many times I'vejust had 10 claw instances open or 10Gemini instances open and I just forgetto proceed with one of the steps. It'slike, "Would you like me to send theemail?" And then I'm like, "Where theheck's this damn email?" And then I lookback and I realize, "Oh, I didn'tactually tell it to continue. I wastedlike an hour." So, I've covered similarexamples, but here's another one. Uh,lead scraping is really popular. So, youfind potential customers, then youenrich their emails, then youpersonalize their first line generation.I do this using a casualization workflowI've shown you guys multiple times, butessentially this is all just batchedunder um you know like end toendnew client workflow. So that when I geta new client, it actually goes through,analyzes the client niche, scrapesleads, enriches the emails, and thendoes personalized first lines beforegiving me a Google sheet. It's kind ofcool because this is all stuff that Iwas doing manually step by step. As youget to higher levels of abstraction,eventually we'll have things that arebasically like do all of the marketingfor this campaign and it'll do a reallygood job. When does the agent actuallyrequire our help? Well, sometimes theagent genuinely cannot fix somethingautomatically. And it's rare, but whenthis happens, it'll typically just askyou directly. Usually, it'll provide afair amount of context, which is good.Now, the question is what it was tryingto do, what went wrong, and then whatoptions exist to fix it. Your job isliterally just to look at that and say,"Okay, let's do this then or okay,update the directive to do this or areyou sure you fully tried?" Or, "Have youresearch all of the solutions?" orsomething along those lines. And so, inthis way, you're not only like uh, youknow, like a decision maker at a highlevel. A lot of the time, you're alsojust a motivator. To be honest, I can'ttell you how many times I've had one ofthese agents go on some loop for 10minutes and try and build something and,you know, they get really close, butthen they just can't seem to get the APIspec. And then I say, "Could youresearch the API spec?" And they go,"All right, yeah, I'll go research theAPI." And then they actually go do thething and they get it right on the firsttry. It sounds weird, but a lot of thetime agents don't just need thedecisions made, they also need somelevel of motivation. I've also foundthat sometimes a gets stuck in a reallysilly loop. Sometimes it'll literallyjust like do the same thing over andover and over again and then it'll trythe same next solution over and over andover again and then it'll just chainthose two together and go back and forthand back and forth and back and forth.Who knows why this happens? I'm sure thesmarter the models get, the less thiswill occur. But when this happens, youyou just pause it. You look at thereasoning. You see what's going on. Yousay, "Hey, you've just been doing thesetwo things for the last like 20 minutes.Could you please not do that anymore?Instead, do research on this bestsolution before proceeding." The reasonwhy you do this is because iteration isactually just really cheap. So it's muchbetter to do something than nothing.Like I mean the cost of you sending thisone message or whatever is like cents onthe dollar, right? And then thepotential upside is is very very big.And typically when you have like amassive disparity between the cost andthen the upside, it would take many manymany runs of this thing completelyfailing without returning some sort oflike ROI. And in my case, you know, I'musually capable of doing on the first orthe second try. So when should you jumpin? When should you do let it run akawhen is there human in the loop? The waythat I determine when I should build ahuman in the loop flow or rather Ishould use human in the loop in a in aflow is what is the magnitude of theoutcome and then what is the sensitivityto quality. So if the magnitude of theoutcome is really big aka this singletask matters a ton for my business thenI'm going to step in. If it's verysensitive to quality, as in if there arevery small errors that createdisproportionately large problems, Ialso step in. And if they're high onboth, you absolutely want a human in theloop. A really simple example of this iscold email templates and then outreachsequences. So I do a lot of these,right? It's part of my day-to-day aspart of leftclick. I find that when youhave an AI do 100% of this, performanceis pretty trash. And the reason why isbecause I could actually graph this.There's basically like a reallyuncanny valley essentially where let meseeif this is the let's just say qualityand then this is the perception.If this is zero and then this is one.Notice how it doesn't really matter howmuch quality we put inuntil we reach some like phase changelevel and then all of a sudden it goesboom and then it becomes really reallyreally good. So for my cold email if Ihave AI right AI it's gotten better overthe years. Maybe it started over hereand now it's over here and now it's overhere and now it's over here here here.It doesn't really matter how good AI isat this process because the sensitivityof the perception of my email campaignsis very very high. And so there's thisuncanny valley effect over here wherelike a tiny little improvement inquality massively improves theperception. And so in situations likethis where the model just can't seem toget up this thing, obviously it makessense for me to like review it reallyquickly, change up two or three words,and then boom, all a sudden the qualityis up here, right? It's like, did Iobjectively change the quality a ton?No. But did the perception massivelychange? Yeah. And that might have takenme a few moments of work. So, I findstuff like that is really, reallyimportant on um, you know, cold emailtemplates, outreach. I would always, youknow, given the volume of the task, thefact that I'm sending this stuff out totens of thousands of people, I wouldalmost always at least have a personlooking it over before it runs becauseit's like, well, what if I'm just likeoff by one degree here? I just wasted10,000 emails. I might have as well likespent 2 seconds to fix that up and thensent to 10,000 and then gotten muchbetter results, right? [gasps] Samething with financial documents likeinvoices and even proposals. I mean, Iautomate the hell out of my proposals,don't get me wrong, but I have a humanin the loop stop. I will take a look atthe proposal before I send it out cuzimagine what if you accidentally addedan extra zero or something. It's very,very unlikely, right? But even if thatoccurs like 01% of the time, you screwup on some number because your AI systemjust misinterpreted what you said ormaybe your voice transcription tool waswrong or whatever. The point I'm makingis like the time savings that you get bynot looking it over are not at allequivalent with the negative impact toyou, your reputation, and your businessif you do not look it over. So anywherewhere there's a few percentage points ofquality making a massive difference tothe impact, generally anytime the impactover here and then the quality over herehas this sort of relationship. Pardonme, I didn't draw that cuz I think mytablet's malfunctioning. Um, yougenerally always want a human in theloop. On the other hand, there are a lotof tasks out there that are really lowsensitivity. And when this happens, it'slike the volume of this thing is a lotmore important than being perfect. So,you might as well just let it runcompletely autonomously. Good example ofthat is web scraping. Like, this is nota really high sensitivity task. Modelsare pretty great at this. Creatingmultiple drafts or variations for laterselection is a design pattern that I useall the time. And it's like I don'tactually need to steer it that much cuzthe whole idea is I just want it to likegenerate me a bunch, right? So, that'sreally simple. Generally anything thatsales linearly with quality, right?Where it's like the amount of qualityhere and then the amount of impact sortof at like a onetoone relationship, I'mokay with it going autonomously becauseeven if I'm up here, okay, and it's overhere, the amount of time that I savehaving it automated, you know, at like70% of the full thing versus 100% of thefull thing is typically way better thanwhatever the the actual impactimprovement is. Now, some things shouldnot be automated at all. I don'tactually think that you should havevoice agents doing any sales calls foryou. And this is something I see so manypeople do. Like if you're offering acall, you clearly care a lot about theoutcome of the call, right? It is ahightouch sales conversation. And youknow, if there's even a.1% chance thatsomebody thinks that there's not a realhuman being talking to them, it's like arobot. That's going to have a muchbigger impact on the quality of thatdeal than 0.1%. Right? So it's not alinear relationship between that at all.And you know, some things I just don'tautomate. Like would I automate thecalling of my client or something? No, II wouldn't. At least not right now atcurrent levels of tech. Maybe if umagentbased calling becomes better andlike more socially acceptable later. Butfor now, no. What I would do is I wouldlike automate the process of coming upwith a bunch of information and contextabout the client. I would automate theprocess of doing research on the client.These are all things that scale prettylinearly as I was talking about, right?So, I'd have some big dossier ofinformation in front of me to save mefrom having to manually go through hoursand hours of LinkedIn research, but um Iwould actually just make sure that theactual calling part is me, right? Itjust doesn't make sense. It's toosensitive of a process. Research, on theother hand, a lot more linear. There'ssome situations that do require empathy,judgment, but you can convert situationsthat require empathy and judgment intosituations that you just likeautomatically say yes or no to. A goodexample of this is um Amazon. Amazon haslike basically automatic refunddispersement. If uh you have asked for Ithink less than like a 2% refund rate orsomething like that. So if there's anissue with your order and like for themost part you don't ask for refunds veryoften and you say, "Hey, there's someissue with this. Could you give me arefund?" Like they will automatically belike, "Yes, refund granted." And thenyou're like, "What the hell? I didn'teven tell anybody about like I didn'teven give a photo or anything. It'sfully automatic." It's like, "Yeah, seehow much time and energy they save bydoing that." So you can just reconstructum sensitive customer situations andlike quantify them and then you can liketotally automate them. But in situationswhere like you genuinely can't. Let'ssay this is somebody with sort of ashakier refund rate and stuff like yeah,you're going to need to find a way topass that off to somebody that hasempathy and judgement. So yeah, I mean Iwould not automate things just for thesake of automating them. I'd only everautomate something if like it actuallymade a bottom line difference to mybusiness. And things like lead scrapingfor instance, research, accumulation oflarge data sets and stuff like Like allthis stuff in videos make a largedifference to my bottom line. So I'mhappy to automate it. But the calls andwhatnot, it's all just me, baby. At theend of the day, your goal is supervisedautonomy. It is not babysitting. So Ijust talk to them like Slack messages. Ido not use formal syntax or precisetechnical language. I just DM mycolleagues and then just replace thecolleagues with my agent. You know, uh Iwas running a YouTube workflow just theother day to edit one of my videos and Isaid, "Hey, could you run the YouTubeeditor for the new file? Make the cuts alittle bit tighter." and it took theaverage cut distance and then it justlike decreased it a little bit and thenit just reran the YouTube editor andthen I said I liked it so then itupdated the flow so I would just usethat the next time. Same thing withvoice transcription in general. Justjust speak naturally and then send it.It'll understand you. Okay. So manuallytriggering these workflows is actuallyjust the beginning and that may befrustrating for you because there manyhours through the course but that goes alot deeper than this. Right now whatwe're doing is we're opening our IDE.We're talking to our agents and thenwe're starting the flows yourself, whichis fine if you have like ad hoc tasks,one-off requests. It's fine when youwork 8 hours a day and between, youknow, 9 to5 or whatever when you're atyour desk, you can you can get thingsdone. But as I'm sure you'd imagine, theautomatic part in the word automation,like the auto is pretty important,right? So, how do you actually havethese things run automatically withoutyour involvement? Well, these are calledevent- driven workflows. For instance,let's say a new lead fills out yourwebsite form. You want a workflow thatautomatically replies and books ameeting, right? But what if the new leadcomes in at 5:30 and and you leave forhome at 5? What if a customer sends asupport email? Your agent does thetriage, write the draft, and writes tothe right person for sending. I mean,that's great and all, but like what areyou going to do? Like wait until thenext day, um, look at your inbox andthen do the triage, then that defeatsthe purpose. So, how do we actuallybuild these things? There's alsoschedule driven workflows. Maybe it's9:00 a.m. on Monday and you want aweekly report to generate itself. So, doyou really want to come in every Mondayand then be like, "Hey, generate myweekly report." I mean, of course, youcan, but it's nice if some of thesethings are done automatically for you.Maybe the weekly report is summarizesyour work and then sends it to your bossor something or your client with yourtimetable, right? Same thing for theseother things. These are uh specificschedules. Well, that's what we're goingto learn about next. Web hooks andscheduling. Now that you know everythingthat you need to know about agenticworkflows in order to build them andthen use them, it's time to take thesethings which up until now have beenconstrained to your own device or yourintegrated development environments,then put them in the cloud where theycan be triggered through means otherthan you actually prompting. So in orderto do this successfully, which I'm goingto call cloudifying my workflows, wedon't actually upload the orchestratoritself. Remember in the loop where wehave the directives, the orchestrationlayer and then the executions. What wedon't upload is the orchestrator. All wereally do is upload the executionscripts themselves which are thedeterministic parts. You can also uploadthe directives too if you wanted toprovide context to a a model later on incase it wanted to edit or or whatever.So for the most part just upload theexecution scripts. I'm going to show youguys how to do that and somealternatives. The way that you can thinkof it is as creating many APIs that doone specific thing reliably. And thesame concepts apply whether you're usingDO or other frameworks like cloud skillsor whatever. Now you may be wonderingNick what is fundamentally differentabout this versus what we were doingbefore. Well, what's fundamentallydifferent about this versus what we'redoing before is there is no LLM.Instead, all we're really doing is we'rejust creating our own API and we'reusing LLMs to do it really reallyquickly and easily with some sort ofdefined input and output. The reason whyis because you need to rememberstochasticity or sort of randomness. Thetendency for models to eventuallydiverge from what it is that you wantedthem to do over time given enough timesteps. So because of this, LMS are veryprobabilistic and they sort of haverandomness in every direction. Whenthey're working in your IDE, for themost part, you're around, right? Whetheryou're not looking at it right thissecond, you'll probably look at it atsome point over the course of the nexthour. And because of that, if it has anissue, you're watching. You can coursecorrect. But if it's 3:00 a.m., okay,and this is running unattended with fullsystem permissions, this level ofvariability is a liability. And so we'retaking the AI just out of the cloud loopentirely.Additionally, instead of having slightlydifferent routing decisions like we seehere, we're just going to force theminto one routing decision every timeusing what's called server side logic.So because your execution scripts do thesame thing every time, you neveractually have to suffer this. Instead,it's always just, hey, we start byexecuting node one, then we move toexecuting node two, and then so on andso on and so forth to node n. And allwe're doing is we're taking thoseexecution scripts, deploying them asstandalone cloud functions. No LLM inthe loop, just an API on a schedule orresponding to web hooks. Theintelligence that we use during thisprocess is just used to build theexecution scripts, not to actually runthem. In this way, you can consider thislike basically deploying your own miniapp. A good way to think about this is,you know, like your agent is thearchitect and your cloud workflow is thebuilding. Architects design buildingsall the time, but it's very rare thatthey actually live in the buildings theydesign, right? So, what our agent isdoing in this point is just architectingour beautiful building and we're goingto put execution scripts to live inthere instead. This obviously loses afair amount. I mean, this takes ouragentic workflows and changes them backinto traditional workflows or proceduralworkflows. It means that they can'tadapt to unexpected situations on thefly. They also can't self-anneal or askclarifying questions when things getweird. You know, you are going back tothat old school traditional automationbehavior and it just does exactly whatyou told it to do. Nothing more, nothingless. But if you think about it, by thetime your workflows deploy, they shouldbe pretty battle tested as I wasmentioning earlier from having rundozens of times locally and you'veprobably already worked out all thekinks in your IDE locally where thedebugging is easy. So if somethingbreaks, you are still going to get errornotifications. And the really cool thingis you can just fix it with your agent.If you're using a modern platform likemodal, um models can read the errorsfrom modal really easily. So you canactually just say, "Hey, this workflow Ithink is broken, fix it." And I canactually just do the debugging processfor you. So you get all of like theability to debug and stuff like that.It's just you're not doing it on like alive loop because if you were doing iton a live loop, results, assuming thatit doesn't do what you wanted to do,could be catastrophic, go all over theplace. And I mean like I could sit hereand I could give you guys a way to dothis that includes the orchestratordirectly in the uh environment. I couldhave the agent actually like listeningand constantly modifying things. ButI've tried this now in a in a few actualbusinesses. And despite the fact thatit's very shiny and it's very sexy andpeople like, "Wow, I can just query myLLM um you know on some cloud containersomewhere and have it do whatever I wantvia web hook." Despite the fact that itseems really cool, we're just not thereyet. I'm pretty sure we'll be there somepoint in the next couple of years, butfor now we're just going to leave theorchestrator out of it completely andbasically just use our agentic workflowbuilding skills to build APIs reallyquickly that we can then call. So theplatform that I use for all this iscalled modal. Modal is not the onlyplatform out there. There are manyothers like trigger.dev etc. I'm notassociated with any of these. Um butmodal is just a good product.Trigger.dev is a good product. We've setup some workflows there and there are acouple of other builders too that likeessentially do this function. Butessentially the way that u modal worksis it's really simple. You just take aPython script and then you turn it intoa cloud function. It's also pay-per-use.So when your workflow isn't running,it'll spin down and it'll cost nothing.You'll get a web hook URL just like youwould from make or nad. And it's alsovery cheap, especially for Python basedexecution scripts. They gave me $5 ofcredits the beginning of this month andI think so far I've used like 3 cents.So very very very affordable. The bestpart is you don't need to know anythingabout any of these platforms to behonest. They're built for agents and soagents know how to crawl them andtraverse them and set things up reallyeasily because their documentation isfantastic. All I really had to do inorder to do this, which I'll show you ina moment, is say turn this into a cloudfunction. And then it did everythingelse. Now, the web hook URLs that modalgives you can be called from anywhere,including by other agents. And then italso allows people at regardless ofwhatever skill level you are to set upthis sort of web hook or event- drivenflow. It's sort of like nadn or make.comor you know gumloop or zapier any one ofthese platformsthese will expose these little web hookurls right and you take these web hookurls and then you give them to serviceslike I don't know um clickup orinstantly or pandadoc or whatever theheck you want right well this is exactlywhat modal does it's just instead ofgiving it to you in sort of this visualway um we just do it through naturallanguage we're like hey set this thingup and then give me a web hook URL sothat I can call here's what the requestbody is going to look like. Cool. Wedone. Awesome. Thank you very much. Thatsaid, wanted to take a couple steps backhere just in case people didn't knowwhat web hooks are. If what I just saidmade no sense to you, that's okay. I'mgoing to cover it. First of all, a webhook is literally just a URL thattriggers your workflow when somethinghits it. So, an external system like aCRM or website form or make or n canactually just call a URL like thisautomatically. It's just like adoorbell. When somebody presses it, yourworkflow will wake up and run. Um, youdon't necessarily have to be there to doit. If you guys have ever done any homeautomation stuff, any sort of like, Idon't know, switches or whatnot, it'sthe same it's the same idea. There'slike some URL somewhere, somedestination, it could even be yourwebsite, and when somebody visits it, ittriggers something that does somethingelse. Obviously, the something else inthis case is going to be our automatedworkflow. If I had a URL like this,let's say it's mynick-thbot.webhook.com,I could do anything with this URL. LikeI I could literally just like enter thisinto my browser and press enter, and itwould trigger a flow. Or I could send anHTTP request which is um like a webrequest through make.com nada and anyother noode builder. I could do itthrough my terminal. I could do itthrough an agent. But basically this isjust a destination on the internet.Okay, that's like a node and whensomebody accesses the node, this thingdoes some logic and depending on whetheror not the node input fits itsspecifications, it'll continue and thencall whatever the heck you want. So webhooks really are just like URL with somelogic attached to them. That's more orless it and they're very very common inany sort of automated scenario. Allright. So, what is the agent doingbehind the scenes in order to set thisup for you? Well, it'll review ouragents.mmd and our claude MD and ourgemini.mmd and so on and so forth. Justto understand the setup first, ideallysomewhere in there, you would say, "Hey,you know, as part of your work, one ofthe things you do is you set up cloudweb hooks or cloud scheduled workflowson modal. Here's how to do so." What itthen does is it looks at your existingexecution scripts for the workflow thatyou want to deploy. It'll wrapeverything in a simple format that modalreally likes proper decorators andwhatnot and then if there are anyprompts or API keys or whatever it'llactually like ask you for them althoughI find most of the time it'splug-and-play it's just like oh you knowI have the keys let me convert them intomodals format once deployed you get asimple URL this is the you know nodethat it calls um this is the phonenumber that other systems can give aring in order to make something happenand then in whatever service you'reusing because this is obviously beingtriggered by some service by somenotification from Slack or some someincoming web hook from instantly orwhatever, you just give them the webhook URL. And a lot of the time there'slike a field or something and it'll say,"Hey, what's the web hook URL you wantus to send results to?" And then youjust put it there. The request justneeds to match the format that the agentexpects. It's usually in what's calledJSON or JavaScript object notation. Youdon't actually need to know JSONnowadays. Um, all you need to do is beable to recognize it. Typically startswith some curly braces and then whenyour agent sees this, um, you know, youcan just copy and paste whatever you seein the web hook documentation. It'll gofrom a demo to actually doing stuffreally, really quickly, which isfantastic. If you don't know how toconnect stuff, you literally just ask,"Hey, how do I set up, you know, ClickUpto call this web hook when a new leadcomes in agent or Claude or Gemini orwhatever you're using, we'll actuallywalk you through all that step by step,especially if it's a platform specificUI thing. I find a lot of the timethey'll just pick, oh, um, here's thelink. Just go to this link and thenyou're done." You don't need to spendhours Googling stuff or chatbing stuff.This is exactly what the tools are goodat. So, don't sweat it. And to take thatone step further, if you wanted to,instead of making it web hook driven,have it schedule driven, you just usesomething called cron. Um, again, thisis something that's very native that issupported by Modal and our agents out ofthe box. Instead, you just say, "Hey,can you run this thing at, you know,5:00 p.m. every single day, and it'll doit. No complex configuration. You justdescribe when you want something to run.It'll handle all the syntax anddeployment details." That's just kind ofannoying for me because I spent a lot oftime learning cron way back in the daywhen I wanted to schedule simple things.But, um, yeah, it's just like setting arecurring calendar reminder. You're justdoing it for your workflows. So, Godbless the fact that we are at this pointwhere technology can do all that for usbecause good lord do I not want to haveto learn another scheduling syntaxagain. Okay, so some example prompts.You just say, "I want my weekly workflowreport to run automatically every Mondayat 9:00 a.m. It'll actually set up thecron for you. Deploy it to modal and soon and so forth." You know, agent willfigure out the rest. Whatever yourtiming is, whether it's every minute,every hour, every year, every 2,000years, whatever, like you can set thisstuff up really, really easily. Don'tsweat it. Um there is some likemisunderstanding usually in modal aboutlike API keys and tokens and credentialsand stuff like that. Um inevitably youwill need obviously to connect oneplatform to another and there is alwaysgoing to be some inherent risk inuploading a secret to the server. Sojust keep that in mind. By making thingscloud accessible you are introducing alittle bit of risk. You're basicallysetting up a server on the internetright like anybody can theoreticallyaccess it if they know your credentials,password, whatever. So your agent willprompt you naturally. It'll say hey thisscript needs your Apollo API key. ShouldI use what's in your env? All you do isyou just say yes. You just say no. Yousay hold on, use this one instead or orwhatever. The way that modal worksreally is they will store thesecredentials as an encrypted secret whichis separate from your code and then thecredentials only actually run whensomebody calls the the web hook. So it'snever actually like in the codebase orwhatever. It's kind of similar to how weseparate our code from thev file in umyou know our IDE. Very very common. It'snot specific to Asian workflows, butyeah, it's the same way thatprofessional engineering teams do thissort of thing. And then what happens toyour IDE is it basically just becomesyour command center. I mean I obviouslydo both um cloud workflows and then Ialso do local workflows. And I actuallyjust like have all of them operate frommy IDE. Like I will say hey run thisworkflow and it'll be like okay this isa cloud workflow so I'm going to callthis web hook URL. Then it'll actuallycreate its own request and then send itto my own server which is kind of cool.Um although keep in mind that when youdo that as I mentioned earlier you willremove the agentic kind of part theself- annealing and so on and so forth.What's really cool though is your IDEhelps you get this done too. And thenwhat you end up with is you actually endup with specific agentic workflows madeto automate the process of uploadingthings to modal which is pretty sweet.What are my recommendations around whento actually turn something into a cloudworkflow? Um just scheduled workflows.If you guys have stuff that is like adaily report or a weekly summary or somesort of like recurring scrape or HTTPrequest, like you can do that in modal,no problem. If it's event triggered, akaum it's very timely, you need to dosomething within a few moments of someother requests coming in, then set upthe web hook functionality like I talkedabout and then boom. But if it doesn'tfit one of these two categories, believeit or not, probably is best to staylocal. If it does not need to run whenyou're not around, it's probably betterto like run it while you are aroundbecause as I mentioned, these agenticworkflow things, they uh they multiplyyour leverage like crazy right now,right? But they also multiply the errorbounds. So you should probably be aroundto see in case it does something youdon't want it to do. Now, if you're justhanging around by your computer for 3 or4 hours a day or whatever, keep in mindyou are now doing like 3 or 4 hours aday of work, keep in mind that like youare now capable of doing 30 to 40 hoursof work in the 3 or 4 hours with aenticworkflows. Um, so it's not like you'rereally losing too much here. You'remultiplying your leverage as alltechnology is done. But there are ofcourse some instances and automationswhere you just always want to run thething automatically and and that'sthat's what this is for.Last thing I really need to mentionabout this is logging and monitoring.Now, if something happens in your IDE,it's typically pretty easy to see whereit went wrong. Why? Because you havelittle reasoning windows that you canpop open, right? It's very easy for youto like see and poke around and be like,"Okay, I could see that there was aproblem here with this HTTP request andso on and so forth." But right out ofthe box, um, in the cloud, you don'thave access to that and most of thislogging functionality is not around. So,cloud deployments don't have that. Whatthat means is your agent action needs toexplicitly force the logging in thecode. It won't always be able to do thisand um when it can't do this, the debugprocess can take quite a while. Thatsaid, okay, if you learn how to build insome form of observability, that's whatthis is called in programming. I'm infrom the start, it becomes a lot morestraightforward. My own personalmonitoring setup is I actually have adedicated Slack channel calledAgentic-Cloud-LOGfor all cloud workflow updates. So everytime a workflow runs, it'll actuallyautomatically send an update to my ownSlack channel letting me know if it wassuccessful or not. I have like a prettysuperficial highle version ofinterpretability now and observability.If something happens, I know that itworked. If something doesn't happen, Iknow that it didn't work. Uh it's not aslike super in-depth as it could be, butit's simple enough that I could justlook at that and then go to my agent andthen say, "Hey, you know, I noticed thisthing isn't working. Can you doublecheck to see what's going on?" And thenit can do its loop on its own. I don'tneed to be around. And then, you know, Ican continue working on something elsewhile it does that. But if I didn't havethis, if I didn't know, then obviouslythat would be a problem. I've seen someways that people have built automatedsystems where they will um automaticallytake an error notification and send itback to another cloud, a claude orGemini or, you know, GPT 5.2 instance orsomething like that and basically say,hey, there was some error with thisthing. Fix it. And it'll just like do itcompletely autonomously. I think thatstuff can be kind of cool. Although,keep in mind like most people aren'tbuilding like 3,000 web hooks a day,right? So that's usually not the actualbottleneck. the bottleneck is more like,you know, why are you building thiswebbook in the first place? So, I don'treally want to like mislead people hereand have them build these cool automaticself-fixing loops when it doesn't reallymatter all that much in the first place.Not to mention like the probability ofit actually entirely fixing itselfwithout introducing more errors ispretty low. And you know, I hopefullyyou guys understand what I'm trying tosay. Okay, so pretty easy to do that.You just say, "Hey, when you deploy tomodal, make sure to add logging thatsends me a Slack message every time itruns. Here's my Slack web hook URL." Ifyou don't have that, you can ask it,hey, get me a Slack web hook URL. Ifyou're using Discord or something, youdo the same thing there. If you, I don'tknow, want a text message or an emailaddress, you can obviously set that upon your end as well. Prettystraightforward. I also say stuff like,"Hey, could you give me a status checkon all my modal deployments? How arethey going?" It'll go through all of themodal deployments, run through theirlogs. Um, it has access to its API. As Imentioned, the docs are prettystraightforward. And so, you end up justgetting everything that you need from aa check-in like this. So, you can do itmanually, you can do it based off oflike some Slack notification, you can doit based off the email notice that youget. There are a lot of um ways to errorhandle this. The reality is you justneed to like know to do this. If youdon't do this, you're going to have abad time. In the future, we will havecloudnative agents, right? Instead ofleaving the orchestrator out of this,we're going to actually be inserting theorchestrator in. And so, we're going tominimize that agent accuracy as modelsget more intelligent and people designbetter frameworks to deal with us. It'dbe pretty cool, right? If you thinkabout it, what you could do is you couldjust send a natural language query to,let's say, nyx-agent.com.This is my agent, with a question mark,which is a query parameter that says,"Run the lead scraper." It would then gothrough the agent PTM MRO loop. It woulddo planning. It would do tool use. Itwould check its memory. It would do somereasoning and reflection before finallydoing the orchestration. But as Imentioned, now we're just at the pointwhere the error bars are a little toohigh. It will be pretty cool thoughbecause once you're done with that,you'll be able to set up a wholeecosystem of just cloud agents that talkto each other and hang out. So, youknow, you'll have one agent here, Nick'sagent, then you'll have Peter's agent,and then Sam's agent. Then Peter's agentwill say something Nick's agent, whichwill query Sam's agent for moreinformation. and they'll decide onsomething together and then I don'tknow, you could even introduce paymentsinto this sort of structure and more.So, early versions of this do existtoday. I published some videos exploringsome of them. Just check out my channel.They're just a little too high riskright now and it just doesn't reallymake too much sense to do that allyourself. Okay, so I'm going to walk youthrough actual modal web hookdeployment. Now, I have a bunch ofprompt templates and stuff like that.You can obviously get all of that stuffin the link at the very top of ourdescription. Um, let's actually gothrough setting up uh web hooks inmodal. All right, now let's talk abouthow to take your directives that areinside of your IDE and then put them onthe cloud, specifically on a servicecalled modal.com. Now, in case you guyswere unaware, modal is basically what'scalled serverless infrastructure, whichis where they have these virtual serversthat they spin up on demand on the flyevery time that you want them to dosomething. What's really cool is mostthe time these serverlessinfrastructures sort of bend into one oftwo camps. One is they're like onlineall the time and then they're alwayscharging you some usage per minute,second, week, month, whatever. Thesecond is they're offline, but then theyhave to start. This is termed a coldstart. And cold starts typically justtake a lot of time and energy. So thatif you have a flow that requires likeinstant reaction like a lot of the uhyou know executions that yourealistically want to host in the cloudum you know it takes a fair amount oftime and you don't actually get itinstantly. You get it after like aminute or two. So, what's really cool ismodal solves both both of theseproblems. And what you can do is you canjust take the execution scripts that youdeveloped and then put them on modal solong as you have the right system promptuh and have it work essentiallyinstantaneously. So, what you do is youcreate an account on this service and Ishould note that I'm not affiliated withthem. Do whatever you want. There arevariety of other ways to do this, butthis is definitely the simplest one.They give you a bunch of free credits,at least as of the time of thisrecording. And it's worth me noting thatI've used Modal now for like at leasttwo weeks, maybe three, and I've used 4cents out of the $5 available. Likerealistically, you're not going to runout of this credit usage. Um, just as atest. I can't imagine how much $30 infree credits would take you. If you'rejust using like a Gentic Workflow foryourself or for like a small to-sizebusiness, this will take you really far.So, it's I mean, not free, but it'svirtually costless. Once you're done,because we added all the informationinto our um cloud MD and our agents MDand and so on and so forth. If we wantto push one of our flows to Modal, it'sactually really easy. All we need to dois just get some authentication goingand then obviously find the specificflow that we want. So I want to do thecreate proposal. I'm going to speak tomy agent. Hey, I'd like to create amodal web hook for create_proposal MD. Ibasically just want to be able toreplicate the functionality of that andjust do it on the cloud instead.Get me a web hookURL for this.So now it's going to go through read mypre-existing system prompt which willinclude a bunch of information all aboutthis. All right, this is almost doneworking through the modal web hook. Aspart of the system prompt, we set upwhat's called a web hooks.json. This isjust a giant list of all of thedifferent web hooks we have. I shouldnote that before it was empty, so all wedid is we just populated it. Now gettingsome information about the web hook thatwe set up and it looks like it wasdeployed successfully. So, we actuallyhave a web hook now available at thisURL here, nick- 90891-cloud-orchestrator-directive and so on and so forth. Itlooks like this takes all of ourinformation in as follows. So, I meanlike we could hardcode all of these. Wecould also have AI generate them. So,what I'm going to do is I'm actuallyjust going to have it run. Okay, great.Could you run a brief example thenreturn the URL when it's done? Okay. Andit looks like at the end of it, we gotour proposal which is right over here.Let's take a look and see how it did.Demo Corp AI automation pilot has somebrief problem areas, has some briefsolution areas. You guys remember we umbuilt this earlier on in the course. Anduh yeah, we now have essentially anautomated proposal generator. Obviously,I wouldn't just like send an HTTPrequest to this with this information.This is a little bit short. I'm notgoing to call something demo corp, noram I going to call uh manual data entrytaking 20 hours per week. I'm going togo in a lot more detail. So just for thepurposes of this, I'll say great, pleaseupdate the documentation. Every time Icall this, I want to make sure that thedemo that I'm providing is reallycomplete. So lengthen the paragraphs forthe benefits and the solutionstatements. Make things longer ingeneral and significantly morerealistic. Then rerun the test.And opening up the new proposal. Let'ssee what this one looks like. Cool. Imean, we did write uh I guess it took mydescription of long to mean that weshould write the title long, too. Butthese look significantly better. Checkthis out. We now have way morecustomized information here. Yeah, thisis uh much much better. Awesome. So,that's great. So, what did we learntoday? We learned that it is actuallyreally easy to set up a web hook. All wereally need to do is we just take ourflow which um you know in our case wasthe creation of a proposal and then sendit to our agent alongside um some systemprompts that describe how to uploadagentic workflows to the cloud.Obviously we need to add ourdocumentation and so on and so forth.Really cool thing about modal is it'sjust one click takes like two seconds.You just go get your modal API key andthen post it in here. It'll ask you todo so. In terms of how to create thetoken, you just click on that new token.The token secret is on the right. Sothat's what you copy and then you justpaste it directly in here uh when itasks you for the modal token and boom,you're done. And yeah, that's how to doit with web hooks. Okay, now that we'veset that up, let's actually go throughsetting up scheduled um triggers inmodal as well. This is different fromweb hooks obviously because now wewanted to do so on a schedule, not justlike based off of some event that comesin. So last time we did this with webhooks. Let me show you instead how to doit with some sort of schedule trigger.Maybe instead of running this via webhook call, what I want to do is I wantto run a really simple workflow,probably some lead scraper or somethinglike that, uh, every 5 minutes. So, whatI'm going to do is I'm just going totell it which thing I want to run andthen how often I want to run it. Andthen everything baked into the systemprompt is super easy and it'll just tellModal to run this using what's calledcron. Hey, could you send a welcomeemail to nickleclick.aievery 5 minutes and I want you to set upa modal cloud scheduled trigger to dothis for me automatically.Cool. So now it's setting up the modalscheduled function to send the welcomeemail every 5 minutes. First it's goingto check the existing schedule functionpattern. Realizes that there is noschedule function pattern. So now it'sjust going to add some scheduled welcomeemails. Cool. And now we have it.Scheduled welcome email is live.Schedule every 5 minutes. So that's whatthat looks like in cron. What we'regoing to do now is we're going to send.What's really cool is when you add them,you can actually see the the variousschedule triggers. So, there's one herewith a little clock icon that says every5 minutes UTC. If I click on this,you'll see that there are no scheduledcalls um that have gone out yet, butthere is one in 1 minute and 9 seconds.And modal's cool because it actuallyallows you to run in between a schedule.So, you can just click on that littlerun now button, and when you click therun now button, it'll actually do thething. You can see here that it took 3seconds to start up the server and 1.47seconds to actually send. Finally, if Igo to the email address that Ispecified, you can see that it'sactually sent the email. I mean, in thiscase, I just used a basic kind ofonboarding email template, or rather, itcreated an basic onboarding emailtemplate. If I wanted to update this, Ijust tell my agent, hey, you know,change this so that it's like a welcomeemail from whatever to whatever. I couldeven give it a template. I could givewhatever I wanted to.And just so that you guys could see itactually run, I'm just going to waituntil this counter goes down to zero soyou guys see what occurs when you set upa schedule. It's pretty straightforward.I mean, at the end of the day, sincewe're no longer using directives in ourcloud um, you know, servers, all we'rereally doing here is we're just runninga Python script, right? Because it's aPython script, these things executenearly instantly. And that's really,really helpful rather than, you know,have to wonder about whether or not thisthing is sent, rather than have to waita really long startup time or send andreceive things to or from Anthropic, weexecute pretty quick. And as you see,because we just finished the previousquery, I think within like 3 or 4minutes or something like that, wedidn't even have to wind down theserver. So, this one took 0 millisecondsand this execution time um was under 1second. So, I mean, we just did thiswhole thing in like less than a secondflat, which is really cool. Heading backover here, you see that we now have thesame email. This is your scheduledwelcome email. And then we also havethat 5-minute block that we talkedabout. Uh it's almost 1000 p.m. UTC,which is why that time says that. Cool.So, hopefully I've convinced you guysthat setting up these sorts of web hookbased triggers and schedule basedtriggers is actually really easy. Thatdefinitely isn't the bottleneck here.Before with uh no code platforms likeZapier and NADN and make.com and stufflike that, you had to be a lot moreprecise. Now you just get the URL andwhat can we do with the you know webhook URL? Well, now I can just connectit to whatever service I want. I couldvery easily set it up so that let's saywhen one of my prospects moves to thesend proposal stage in my ClickUp CRMfor instance, which by the way I cancontrol completely um agentically usingthe agentic workflow that I set uppreviously as an example. uh you know wethen trigger the web hook and maybe thatoccurs automatically as well. And so inthis way we build a full endto-endcompletely automatic flow with web hookURLs that I could share within myorganization or give to other people.And that's it. You now know how to buildworkflows that essentially run withoutyou. The next step is to take this tothe next level. Right now we've beenrunning agents sequentially which justmeans one at a time. But imagine afuture where you could actually runmultiple agents simultaneously. That'swhat this next chapter is going to beabout. It's going to be aboutparallelizing your work to multiply youroutput. Essentially, you're going to gofrom one employee to a whole team.Instead of doing things like this whereyou finish task one and then you do tasktwo and then you do task three, we'reactually going to in one fell swoopactually do tasks one, two, and three.Then we're just going to recombine theoutputs. And we can um do thisarbitrarily basically all the way to nservice workers or threads or or orinstances of an agent so long as you setup the environment right. Okay. Okay, sohow do you set up multiple agentssimultaneously? Well, spoiler alert, allyou're really doing is just openingmultiple terminal instances. Nothingsuper magical here. In VS Code oranti-gravity or any terminal basedworkflow, they all provide you theability to open multiple panes, whichallows you to run Gemini, GPT, CloudCode, whatever the heck you want indifferent terminal windows. My favoriteway to do this right now, and sort of myoptimal, is three. I don't really workwith more than three simultaneouslyunless we're doing long background tasksjust because I find that my attentionstarts wavering and I start losingeffectiveness at like remembering whatthe heck I'm doing. I always just dothis vertically, left, middle, andright. I'll show you guys examples ofall that stuff in a minute. So insteadof just doing all of this within asingle IDE, you can also be kind ofsmart about it. Uh most models arebasically at approximately the samelevel right now. Like if this is threedifferent models, they're basically allcapping out at similar levels ofintelligence. There are modeldifferences between them, but most ofthem are trained in the same data,trained in similar ways, and so they'reall kind of like reaching same levelsright now. So if you find yourself withan IDE or a model, I should say like umGemini within anti-gravity that isstricter rate limits or higher costs,instead of running like three instancesof let's say Claude against each other,you could run one instance of Claude,then you could run one instance ofGemini, and you could run one instanceof like GPT 5.2 or something. By doingall this stuff simultaneously, thefrontier models will remain at a similarintelligence level. You're also going toget some slightly different ways to dowork which can be beneficial for you ifyou're still in the building stage orthe doing stage not necessarily runningthis sort of stuff um really high scaleand then because we have the sameinitialization files agents MD cloud MDGemini MD etc there's no functionaldifference for the model as a resultinstead of let's say like this is thethe the threshold here where you knowyou pay $200 a month for the plan ofclaude I think this is like a the claudemax plan or something like that and thenyou have to pay another I don't know$100 in credits after you hit thisthreshold, right? So, instead of beinglike this, what we basically do is weget to use three models instead and keepthem below that threshold the entiretime. I'm going to show you guys thisand a bunch of others um in anti-gravityand then uh you know, have you guys runthrough practical ways to do this. Um,another thing I wanted to mention waspractical limits on parallel agents. So,I find that in practice, twosimultaneous agents is probably theaverage baseline that I like stickingat. Four agents is what I consider to bemy soft max before things start gettingcounterproductive. Like it seems reallycool when you have a million tabs openand all these agents are working onthings. You feel like a superpower,right? But you're not actually beingproductive. You're just feelingproductive. So instead of like being ina situation like that where most of theagent time will actually be spentwaiting for you to like see the tab andlike do something with it. I want youguys to know that feeling busy is notthe same thing as actually being busy.Feeling productive is not the same thingas being productive. So this is a goodway to just like help monitor that. Istick to three to four. Any more thanthat, you're probably just shootingyourself in the foot. Okay. Okay, soI've talked a little bit about thisbefore, but you know, when you don'tknow how to build a workflow, you have acouple of approaches here. You canobviously just say, "Hey, can you builda workflow for me that does this?" Andit's like a first pass. That's fine. Butan advanced way to do it is actuallysay, "Hey, can you give me threeapproaches to build this thing?" Whatyou do is you take those threeapproaches and you give them to eitherseparate models or separate instances.Then what you do is once they're alldone, you test to see which one scoresthe best. So maybe this one here scores75%, this one here scores 84%, this onehere scores 99%. What are you going todo? Obviously you're going to use thisone, right? This one's the bestcombination of speed, cost, accuracy,and so on and so forth. In doing this,rather than having to um, you know, geta subpar solution and then slowly likemake a bunch of changes to get to thispoint. You can actually just run thesethree agents in parallel and get threetimes the total search space instead oflike manually going through this processone by one by one. I want you to imaginedividing this into three sections,having three of these little snakes goat the same time, which is just much,much faster, and then ultimately buildsomething that is way better and waymore scalable. How do you do this?Really straightforward. Just send thatbrief list of bullet points describingwhat you want to build to one agent.Then say, can you generate threedistinct approaches with in-depth stepsfor each because I'm going to send thisover to another model. Also, give mesome pros and cons so I can understandthe trade-offs up front. And you know,this will take you a few minutes upfront, but it'll also save you a lot oftime because if you go with a subparsolution initially, two or three hoursdown the line, you may still be workingout some bugs or kinks or ways to makethings faster. Whereas, if you juststarted with the right architectureright off the bat, you would have hadall that stuff solved. Once you're donewith that, it's pretty easy. Just openthree separate instances of your agent,one for every approach. Give each agenta dedicated working folder. I like doingthis in TMP. So I do like uh temporaryfolder SL1 temporary folder SL2temporary folder SL3 and actually justcopy a prompt and I'll say hey you'recurrently working in this folder. Thereason why is because we're creatingthree copies of a similar build withthree different approaches. I want to doit here so that we're not, you know,crisscrossing files and so on and soforth. I'll show you guys a briefexample what that looks like in amoment. Once you're done, you justreview all three outputs side by side.Pick your favorite approach based offthe actual results and the theoreticalassumptions. Then you move the winningsolution into DO or whatever it is thatyou're using, cloud skills and so on andso forth. Once it's moved over, youobviously also have to retesteverything. And the reason why isbecause if you don't retest everythingwhen the files are moved over, there mayjust be some issues with file referencesand that sort of thing. So this lets youdo three builds in the same amount oftime. Best one wins. You can obviouslydo exactly what I'm talking about, notjust for the building, but also for thedoing. You can run dozens of agents. Andthere are also things like backgroundtasks which allow you to run agents sortof like in the background so that youcould still do something else inparallel on top of it within a singlethread. So I've talked a lot aboutbuilding agentic workflows until now.But what I wanted to do here is justgive you guys a brief demonstration ofwhat using agentic workflows looks likein my day-to-day. So to be clear, Ipersonally do a few things with myday-to-day. Number one is I runleftclick which is a growth/outboundAI enabled agency. We basically help yougo to market for a product or service orscale up an existing product's outreachusing AI and lead scraping mechanismslike you see here. We let you buildcompletely autonomous outbound pipelinesthat don't rely on you or your team. Youjust end up with a bunch of bookedmeetings to sell your service in you oryour salesperson's calendar. The othermain thing I do is I create content likethis. So I make YouTube videos. I writebig long guides on how to, you know,build with agentic workflows and stufflike that. And so I'm constantlyjuggling between these two things. Thethird thing is I run a school community,actually a series of school communities.One called Maker School over here andone called Make Money with Make overhere. And so I have a fair amount that Ihave to do on a daily basis as I'm sureyou can imagine. You know, I have to dothings for Leftclick that are kind ofolder school agency things. I need tocreate proposals and, you know, I needto scrape leads from my clients andonboard them and stuff like that. Then Ihave to do things for school like I haveto manage replies. I have to, you know,send and receive DMs. I have to answerpeople's questions and so on and soforth. Plus, I have to do things forYouTube, like I have to create scriptsand monitor YouTube for competitors andstuff like that. So, let me just giveyou a brief example of what me doing allthree of these things simultaneouslywould look like in an Agentic workflow.So, the first thing I'm going to do isI'm going to have this run throughbasically my end to-end agency flowusing a demo kickoff call transcriptthat uh I'm pulling up from my TMPfolder. This is just plain text. Um, youknow, I could pull this up from likeFireflies or any other liketranscription tool if I wanted. I'vejust stored this plain text inside ofTMP for simplicity. So, I'll say run thepost kickoff flow for demo kickoff calltranscriptover here. you know, maybe I'm justgetting started for the day and I wantto see what sorts of YouTube outliersthere are. Uh, with those YouTubeoutliers, I'm going to be able toideulate a new video or something likethat, come up with an outline and so onand so forth. So, I'll say run theYouTube outlier workflow and find mebetween 10 to 20 outliers for agenticworkflows.This is what I'm going to be doing afair amount today because, as you guyscould see, I'm recording a video onagentic workflows and, you know, it'ssort of like the hot topic now. And overhere on the right, I'm obviouslymanaging my school community. And so Ibuilt up some agentic workflows to helpme pull relevant questions and commentsand stuff like that from school. Pullthe top 10 most recent school posts fromMaker School. And so now I have thesethree clawed code instances basicallyrunning in the background for me. Andall I'm going to do as somebody that is,you know, attempting to be economicallyproductive is I'm just going to sit hereand then watch over these and then, youknow, add and chime in where necessary.So over here on the left hand side, it'sasking me some simple questions. I'mjust because I'm doing a demo here, sayNick at leftuh leftclick.ai AIdo the lead genen with modified queryand then everything else too. Cool. Overhere on the right hand side I see thatwe're done with my school post. So now Ihave a bunch of information about this.Looks like Suam recently posted a coldemail guide. So I'm going to say Suam'scold email guide. Run me through hisstep by step. This over here in themiddle is using the tube labab API whichis part of one of the agentic workflowsthat I put together to go and thenscrape me a bunch of um outliers. So oneof our members was kind enough to sharewith us how he made $500,000 in about 6months or so using instantly which is acold email tool and then a lot of thesame um you know principles that we talkabout here. So he ran through andactually provided a ton of info and Imean I'm just curious what that lookslike. I could of course use the schoolUI. I could log into school and thenscroll through the post myself and stufflike that. But I set up an agenticworkflow to do this. Why? Because itbecomes really easy to do really coolthings with agentic workflows inside ofschool. Like hypothetically, I get a lotof questions, right? And what I did wasI built a rag or retrieval augmentedgeneration uh tool that essentiallylooks every time somebody asks aquestion to see if something similar hasbeen answered in the community before.If so, it actually goes and it gives methe link. Then what I can do is as Irespond to them, I could just copy thelink over and say, "By the way, if youwant a much more detailed explanation,check out this post or so on and soforth." So, what I'm seeing here on thecross niche outlier sheet is it'slooking like we're not including all umAI based uh results. And that's probablybecause realistically there just aren'tany competitors for agentic workflowsyet because I've kind of coined theterm. So, that's great for me. What I'mgoing to do now is I'm just going tohave it run some sort of outlier scraperfor terms like AI agents instead. Thatshould give me a fair amount of stuff towork with. Anyway, on the right handside here, now we're done with this.This is great.Fantastic.Comment extremely valuable guide. So,what I'm going to do is use my schoolsystem to go through this, get all ofthe post ID and stuff like that, andthen actually send a comment on thatsaying, you know, excellent or extremelyvaluable guide. If I open this up andthen scroll all the way down to thebottom, you can see that I just left acomment here saying super valuableguide. And so, I basically get tocommunicate with school, which is aservice that previously required agraphical user interface, just entirelythrough an agentic workflow instead,which is fantastic. I'm sure futureversions of Aentic Workflows will beable to recreate the UX any flavor orway that I want, but for now, this ispretty cool for me. I don't mind. Overon the left hand side, you can see wecame up with 15 leads. The reason why Idid 15 and not say 1,500 just because itwas trying to be mindful of my tokencosts, knew that I was doing this aspart of a demo. Um, we've actuallyalready gone through and and got what Ithink is nine emails, which is cool. Andthen after that, if we scroll a littlebit further down, this actually wentthrough and uploaded leads to thecampaign, which is pretty sweet. It theneven added things to a knowledge baseand then even went as far as to send asummary email to my client, which inthis case I just used my own email forum basically telling them, hey, youknow, we're done with the campaign andso on and so forth. What's really coolis it also gave me three links. So, I'mjust going to open up these three links,which take me directly to my cold emailtool um where I can actually see the umcampaigns that it came up with. So, thismight sound crazy, but hear me out. Iwant to generate 50,000 in revenue forcompany name in the next 90 days. If Idon't hit that number, I'll work forfree until I do. How? LinkedIn thoughtleadership. I run a company. We spentsix years helping 200 partners atprofessional services firms turnLinkedIn into a revenue channel.Counting firms, consultancies, financialadviserss, executive coaches. Ourclients regularly close 50K dealsdirectly from LinkedIn. Some see 3 to10x follower growth and most startgetting two to three inbound leads permonth once the content machine isrunning. I know this is bold, but I'mconfident we could do something similarfor you when you open to a quick chat.No pressure, just a conversation. Imean, this is just one of threecampaigns with two split tests each.Obviously, while this copy is uh I wouldconsider very punchy and probably[snorts] higher quality than like 80 85%of all of the copy that other people arerunning for campaigns like this. I'mgoing to like take a look at the copy,maybe make some minor changes before Iactually go through the process. Um, butit's still pretty great, right? I didnotice that there was an issue herewhere the Gmail MCP was notauthenticated. So, um, because I wasshowing you guys how to authenticateMCPS in another video here, it was ademo that I did a few hours ago. um itunauthenticated my MCP. Obviously, ifthis occurs, you need to reauthenticate,right? So, what I would do in this casewould be reauthenticate MCP and then itwould just go through that processtogether. On the right hand side here,I'm going to say something like, hey,what sorts of questions have been askedin the last 24 hours that I can answer.So now I'm going to get a list ofquestions the right hand side here.That's pretty straightforward. While I'mdoing this, I'm reauthenticating myGmail MCP. That's going to trigger OOTH,which is pretty cool. in the middlehere. We're still scraping moreoutliers.Would you give me the highest priorityonesover here? We now need to restart theGmail MCP server. So, I'm just going torestart cloud code. The new O flowshould capture a refresh token. Let meknow once you've completed the browserauthentication and then I will startagain. Cool. So, I'm going to do is I'llgo new. Just going to go /mcp.We'll say offmy MCP, off my Gmail MCP.Over here on the right hand side, yousee some people have asked somequestions. So, Emil's asked somequestions about client delivery whenyou're offering a lead genen system. Forhow long should you sign up the clientfor and how long can you keep onproviding new leads for the company? Forhow long are you guys typically runningcampaigns for clients? On average, I runcampaigns for a minimum of 90 days. Ididn't used to do this, but I found that90 days was sort of the sweet spot as ittypically takes some stopping andstarting before you figure out the rightoffer combination and the right leadtargeting. When I started, I wentmonth-to-month entirely. I'd probablyrecommend that in your case just to keepfriction low, but hopefully this helpsgive you an understanding of the variousways that you could put something likethis together. And we have anotherquestion here about 400 bucks. Well,first off, nice job on the 400 bucks.the JSS score tanking is hard to hear.My recommendation would be to send him amessageletting him know that immediately afteryou finished your contract, you had amassive JSS dump. This is somethingabout Upwork. And softly implying thatthis will unfortunately have seriousconsequences as to your ability to getfuture work. I would also ask him ifthere's something or anything that youcan do to improve that job successscore, whether it's going back andproviding free or additional work etc.It looks like on the third he put somecopy together. So I'm just going to sayshow me the copy.Cool. And now this is going to gothrough top to bottom and then send thatinfo. What's cool is this also formatsmy text for me. So I can just dump allthis in. It's now going to authenticate.So I'm just going to head over to myemail. Looks like it's successful. So Ican go back here. This looks prettysolid. I would probablyremove thejust because this doesn't offer a lot ofvalue. If you work withsomebody in your niche, I wouldrecommend that.This is usually considered positivesocial proof. The would you be open to a15-minute call about this as the lastquestion is a little weak. I wouldprobably be hyper specific with thetimes that I'm asking for. I.e. couldyou do?Okay, over here on the left hand side wehave the Gmail MCP. So I'll just saysend mea hello email to nicholas@gmail.com.Over here we have the output of ouragent. So let's take a look at this.Looks like it's saying that a lot ofthese are related to ICE agents, whichis sort of a political thing that'sgoing on right now, which is why we'regetting these outliers. Obviously,that's not, you know, that's not whatI'm going to be doing. I really careabout looking for those outliers, but Ido see some of these are more agentrelated. So, a agents that actually workthe pattern anthropic just revealed. Wehave the thumbnail right over here.That's cool. Google Workspace Studiobetween these two. Sam Alman lookingquite menacing.These are pretty funny, honestly. Uh,cool. Yeah. So, I have some reasonableoutliers here, which is nice. Um, youknow, I'm probably not going to be ableto do the political ones, and I'm notreally making content like that ortalking head, so I can avoid those. Buthopefully you guys see that, you know,now I have some outliers that I couldwork with that have just been releasedin the last few days. Um, but, you know,maybe I could start modeling my contentaround or something like that.Meanwhile, the MCP now works. So, we didfix that. And then I've also sent threeum messages within school. So, I'm justgoing to take a little peek at that.Cool. also just sent that just sent thatand then right over here just said thatand you can see it's also formatted mytext for me and stuff like that. Okay,so I don't do this because I think anyof these three particular ones that I'mrunning are super powerful or superincredible or whatever, but these arejust things that I had to do today, youknow, and I just figured I would runthrough them with you guys. Um, this islike a practical look at this theday-to-day work that I do within myAgentic Workflow IDE. Um, and hopefullyyou guys see how this is a very simpleand easy way to like multiply yourleverage, right? I mean, I just did likea whole endto-end workflow for uh,admittedly a demo client, but a democlient nonetheless on the lefth handside. In the middle, I ran like outlierdetector and on the right hand side, Ieven interacted and engaged with schoolposts much faster than I could domanually. Um, that auto automaticallyformatted my text, found like goodquestions for me to answer and so on andso forth. You guys can use AgenticWorkflows in your ID in the exact sameway for whatever the knowledge work isthat you need to do. Whether you'recopyrighting campaigns, whether you'rescraping leads, whether you're just likeorganizing your CRM or adding things toa record, like it is now entirelypossible. And I hope you guys also seethat there is a split between thebuilding of a workflow and then theusing of the workflow. The building issomething you do once and then the usingis an opportunity to make a return oninvestment on the building time over andover and over and over again basicallyevery day. I don't really think it's afar cry to say that most people couldprobably automate 50% or more of theirday-to-day work using flows like thisand at minimum at least make it 50% moreenjoyable or easier to do. So, next Iwant to talk a little bit about subagents. Why sub agents? Because contextwindows fill up really, really quickly.Most people don't realize this, butcurrent models have a context window ofaround 200,000 to around 1 milliontokens in certain instances. And thatsounds like a lot, but when you addtools, all of this context disappearsmuch faster than you would think.Specifically, detail oriented tasks burnthrough context really quickly becauseof that loop that I was telling youabout. Debugging burns through contextvery quickly because of the loop I wastalking to you about. Any sort of MCPsburn through context really quickly. Andbefore you know it, half of your wholecontext window of let's say 500,000tokens or something is filled withintermediate garbage that significantlyreduces the probability of a successfuloutput. Now, this phenomenon wherethere's a bunch of garbage in yourcontext window and that leads to poorquality outputs is called contextpollution. And pollution is essentiallywhere that intermediate memory, thatsort of midterm memory that I talkedabout way back at the beginning of thecourse, gets cluttered with a bunch ofirrelevant noise. Now, scientists havebeen working with these models for quitea while. As I may have mentioned to youat some point in the past, AI modelsthese days are more grown than they arebuilt. And so, it's very much like anatural phenomenon that we are testing.And what they've found is consecutivelyacross thousands and thousands andthousands of tests, the more tokens in acontext window, typically the poorer thequality is. And the relationship lookssomething like this.And the reason it looks like this isbecause over here on the very left handside, you probably have zero tokens,right? And so if it's fresh and you askit to do something with no context orwhatever, it'll do an okay job. If youadd a bunch of context and you tell it,hey, you know, I'd like you to do this.Here are a couple of examples of pastinstances of this run correctly. Uhhere's a bunch of context. Here's abunch of links and whatever. Performanceactually goes up in the short term. Whatyou'll notice is as you go on and on andon and you start filling it with more,you know, irrelevant garbage andwhatnot, performance and quality andoutputs go down a lot. Now, back in theday with GPT2 and GPT3 when I wasstarting 1 second copy in my contentwriting business, you know, this wassuper super important and it was soimportant that I actually trained all ofmy writers not to use more than 256tokens at a time. So, imagine that wehad to stick under 256 tokens with ourprompt. Essentially, if we went any overthat, we found um quality went off acliff. In our case, now we can usesignificantly more than 256 tokens.Obviously, this point here is probablysomewhere closer to like 10k or so, not256. So, we're sort of blessed in thatway. But still, there is thatrelationship between more stuff in thecontext window and then poor quality.So, we need to make sure that uh youknow, if all else is held equal, we tryand minimize the amount of tokens in ourcontext as much as possible. Now that weunderstand that, onto sub aents. The waythat sub agents solve this is throughisolation of context. Now the idea is inorder for something to be a sub aent andnot a part of the main agent, it getsits own fresh clean context window towork in. So all you do with a sub agentis basically you give it a task. You letit do all the messy work in its ownspace and then you return only therelevant findings. So just as a quicklittle demonstration here, let's saythis is a chat back and forth with youand you know your agent. So this is youover here. This is your agent over here.Any every time you ask it something, itsends something back and so on and soforth. Imagine what happens every timeyou send a call. Essentially what isoccurring is we stack up all of these.And so our total context, if you thinkabout it, is that block up there plusthis block over here plus that blockover here plus that block over here plusthat block over here. So how many blocksis this? We're just counting. That'sfive blocks. And let's say everyone's athousand words. You're actually sendinglike a,000 words. So what that means ison the next query, what we're doing iswe're sending a total of five blocks ofcontext plus the thing that we asked. Somaybe 6,000 in total. What sub aentsallow you to do is instead of doing thisum you know having this 1,000 here,let's pretend that this over here isactually a sub aent loop. What we do iswe actually just eliminate thiscompletely. Okay, and then we eliminatethat completely. And so what ends uphappening is basically the model insteadof storing the results directly in thecontext, okay, only stores the outputsof that response. So all we're reallydoing to make a long story short is weask the sub agent to do something. Itdeals with all of that stuff sort ofinternally in its own head and then justspits us out a brief summary plus theresults that we asked for. If you guysare keen, you'll notice that this isvery similar to how reasoning tokens getdiscarded after use to keep the totaltoken countdown. Remember how there'sthat sort of like thinking tab and youcan open up the thinking tab if you wantto see what's kind of going on under thehood. Well, those tokens aren't actuallyadded to what I talked about here. Thosetokens disappear. So, it's the exactsame thing. Whether it's reasoning,whether it's sub aents, both of thesestrategies are meant to reduce the totalamount of stuff and garbage pollutingthe context window. And the data backsthis up. Anthropic, a company that sortof not coined sub aents, but isdefinitely the leading force behind themwith clawed code. Um, it ran a testwhere opus was the lead and then opusessentially controlled a bunch of subaents and had those sub aents do avariety of smaller tasks beforereporting back their findings. And itfound that it outperformed single agentopus by over 90% on research. basedtasks. Now, I should note that'sresearch, right? Not all tasks areresearch related. Obviously, researchinvolves a ton of tokens. And so, subagents here obviously did way betterthan they probably do on most othertasks relative to, you know, thestandard. But, there are somecircumstances where sub agents doperform significantly better even inday-to-day use. And that's why I'mtalking about it. You'll know that I uhI really haven't really given a crapabout sub agents or anything like that.This is a very recent phenomenon for me.People have been talking about subagents for the better part of the lasttwo years. And every time they are like,"Nick, why aren't you using sub aents orwhatever?" I'm always like, "Becauseit's pointless." Like sub agents as anarchitectural addition just complicatethings. They don't actually make thingseasier. Models for the most part canhandle tasks on their own. It's okay.You don't need to like, you know, tryand develop some big fancy framework.Well, model intelligence has gotten tothe point where we can actually make useof these things now. So long as you'renuanced and kind of smart about how youdo it. So the catch between this isthere's implementation complexitybecause you are now inserting your ownbiases and how you think the modelshould operate. Then you're alsocompounding errors. What do I mean bycompounding errors? I mean, you know, ifyou think about it, there's a step herewhere in order for my parent agent tosend something off to a child or subagent, it needs to summarize what it isthat it wants the sub agent to do. Andso that right there is a step. And thatstep might be like 99% accurate. But aswe know, if you have a bunch of thingsthat are 99% accurate, if you add enoughsteps into the process, eventually thatturns out into something that is muchless than 99% accurate, right? It mightbe like uh I think my example was 99.9%stretched out over a,000 tasks was 36%accuracy at the end of it. So you knowthe more uh steps you have likesummarization steps sending to this thisdoes some summarization sends back themore area you're inserting in theprocess and the higher the variabilityis. So basically what you need to do isyou just need to find a situation wherethe added error as a result of theadditional steps is outweighedessentially by the beneficial effect onthe context. And there's no realnon-trivial way to know this right offthe top of your head. Like you need totest this. You need to try this. Nowsince I've tested this and trying this,my recommendation is to stick to two subaent types for now. And there's in inparticular just two that I'm going totalk about. Before I tell you what thosetwo are, the other two big wins from subagents are there's context management.Your main agent will stay super cleanand it'll only have things that arehighly relevant to what it is that wewant. So let's say you delegate to abunch of sub aents that have MCP access.Those sub aents are the ones that loadup all the context and other MCP. Thenthey do the job and then they reportback. If your sub aents are atomicenough, obviously we can do that overand over and over again and we canactually make some real headway withoutpolluting the context window. The secondis parallelization. So sub aents canactually run all simultaneously. Whatyou'll find when you delegate to subagents like I'll show you later is asingle agent can spawn multiple and thenthose multiple basically all run ontheir own and report back wheneverthey're individually finished. So ifyou've ever seen, you know, Gemini orClaude sort of do research, typicallywhat'll occur is it'll spin up, youknow, three or four research sub aentsbecause that's native to theirarchitecture and they're basically justgoing to wait until all three or four ofthese are completed. But these don'toccur top down. It's not like thisfinishes first, this finishes second,this finishes third, this finishesfourth. These are all individualprocesses. So this one might finishfirst and report back. This one couldfinish second, this one could finishthird, and this one could finish fourth.It's a very interesting phenomenon thatyou guys have probably seen but notfully understood where that comes fromyet. A good example of thatparallelization is if you want to scrapea bunch of leads. I do tons of leadscraping, hence why it's always myexample. But um you know, you don't needto scrape all these one by one. Youdon't need to scrape, let's say, 30,000independently through some big serialthing. You can actually just have yourparent agent, okay, spin up three subaents and maybe every sub agent itselfuses some form of parallelization to doa task. And so now what you're doing,and I know this sounds really fancy,you're probably like, does it actuallywork? Now what you're doing is you'rebasically just cutting the total amountof time it takes to do this thing down.And then what what occurs is once theseare all done, okay, if you kind of likecheck mark these, they report theirresults back to the main agent. Then themain agent's task is really justconsolidating these, putting themtogether, which if you think about itlike the act of I don't know stitchingtogether three lists of things is a loteasier of a task to ask a parent agentthan you know actually going through theorchestration of scraping that manyleads. If something previously takes 3hours sequentially with the spin up, theuh scraping and then the wind down. Thismight only take 30 minutes in parallelbecause you are consolidating thosefixed costs uh in terms of spin up andthen wind down and then your parentagent just gets the results. In terms oflike the technical and logistical bitswhere sub aents live, they're defined asmarkdown files. Exact same thing as thedirectives. Nothing really differenthere. Uh in clawed code specifically,they're included/aents. So this is a tople folder withanother folder underneath it. And thenif you want to go global as in have thataccessible like across your entireproject directory, then you put it inyour current directory. Claude/ aents.The disambiguation there isn't superimportant. If you want sub agents toonly have access to a specific workspaceor project, this is how you do it. Butif you wanted to have access toeverything, uh then you'd put it overhere and that way sub agents can workacross your workspaces. Now, otheragenda coding tools do follow similarpatterns. There is no consensus, atleast not as of the time of thisrecording, how Gemini is organizing itssub aents, how Codeex and so on and soforth are organizing their sub aents.But rest assured, everybody has theirown little framework and it's all aboutlike the system prompt, right? You canabsolutely just have these models spinup the equivalent of the claw codeversion of sub aents. It's just a matterof doing a little bit more heavy liftingup front. The anatomy of a sub aent fileright now is again you have the namethen you'll have the description andthen also really important you have thepermissions. So which tools the sub aentcan access tools in our do framework forinstance are going to be directives andexecutions. After that, you have thesystem prompt. And just like we dosystem prompts across the entireworkspace, we also have a sub aentspecific system prompts. Um, you guysdon't actually need to know any of this.I just say make me a sub agent that doesX, Y, and Z. And this sort of stuff isjust baked into um at least the Claudefamily of models as of the time of thisrecording. It'll most certainly be bakedinto other ones as well. So yeah, youdon't need to create these yourself. Youcan just ask the agent to do it. Umhere's an example prompt. literally justcreate a sub agent called document thatgets called after every workflow toupdate to consolidate changes in thedirective and execution scripts. It'llgo through a process of creating thething. I'm going to show you what thatlooks like in practice and yeah, you'redone. Your agent will generate a file,put in the correct folder, and then it'simmediately available. Talk aboutsomething recursive, huh? It's agentscreating agents. I should note thatagents can create the definition of anagent, but an agent can only spawn an asub aent. Sub agents can't spawn moresub agents themselves. And this is likea memory constraint. They don't want subaents to be able to spawn more sub aentsto be able to spawn more sub aentsbecause essentially what you're going todo is you're going to end up with asituation where you know your parentagent spins up two sub aents your subaents spin up two sub aents your two subaents spin up two more sub aents and soon and so on and so on and so forthuntil basically your I don't know CPU isas hot as the surface of the sun not tomention you know some safety andsecurity concerns and stuff like that soum really what happens is we sort oflimit it to if we just cut all thisstuff out these too. And so your parentagent can spin up however many sub aentsit wants, but they all report back tothat parent agent. So what are those twosub aents that I talked about that Ipersonally find genuinely useful?They're not required to be clear. Youcan absolutely use DO and whatever otherframework um it is that you want tobuild with without sub aents. But Ifound that these actually improve theaccuracy and quality of my executionscripts and they are a joy to use asopposed to something that is you knowlaborious and time inensive and so onand so forth. The first is the reviewersub agent. So a main issue with buildingdirective orchestration executions orcloud skills is your orchestrator willwrite a bunch of code. And so if you askit, hey, how's this code looking? It'sgoing to be biased towards thinking thatthat code is correct because it just,you know, probably ran it a bunch oftimes and it sees some correct runs inits history. The unfortunate thing isthat's kind of like asking somebody toread their own essay right after writingit. Um, any experienced writers willknow what you want to do is you want totake a little bit of a break. You wantto like take a deep breath, go sit downsomewhere else, you know, like do notlook or read that essay. Come back to itmaybe an hour or two later because whenyou come back to it an hour or twolater, your mind is no longer pollutedby all the biases and your own flavoringof thought surrounding, you know, howgood that essay is. When you come backto it, you basically come back to itwith fresh eyes and you can tell bydefinition whether or not it is a goodessay or a bad essay, whether it's someof your good best work or maybe somesort of mediocre work. And so reviewersub agents work basically the exact sameway. Instead of the orchestrator whichremembers all its decisions, what we dois we give it to something that canactually see a lot more clearly. Whatoccurs is the reviewer gets loaded withcompletely fresh context which is justthe directives and just the executionsthat we built. We then ask it toevaluate the script purely on itsquality. In short, it acts like a secondpair of eyes. We give it no contextabout what this thing is for. And theidea is it needs to like determine thecontext through the code. Meaning thecode has to be documented. It has to bepretty straightforward to understand andread. Has to be written simply. And thenif you think about it, if it has nocontext whatsoever, it'll be able tolook at it and be like, hm, that seemskind of weird because most other codelike this will probably have some errorhandling, but this one doesn't. I thinkthis should probably build in some errorhandling and then it can providesuggestions back to the main agent whois sort of biased to actually go and andbuild the thing. How do you do this?Well, your main agent just calls subagents automatically when you definethem in the system prompt. So inagents.mmd, after you create any script,use the reviewer sub agent to check forits quality. That's a totally okay thingto write somewhere in your agents.MG umG or system prompt. Um while it won't be100% accurate, aka it's not going to dothis every single time, you know, itwill do this up until the context windowgets polluted enough, which is a prettyreasonable thing uh to do. And I findjust having this probably improves myaccuracy a good 5 10%. In addition, youcan obviously also ask the model to dothings manually. So you could say, "Hey,uh that's great. Call the reviewer subagent, just make sure everything'sokay." Or, "Call our reviewer and ensurethat you know this is fine. Hey, I wantyou to make some edits after you're donemaking those edits. Ping reviewer,double check that it's okay. If it'sokay, then give me the thumbs up. Theseare all just flavors and variants ofthings that you can ask your agent.Obviously, your mileage varies and it'sup to you. The second sub aent that Irecommend building is a document subagent. So, this one updates directivesbased on what the system has learnedover time. You know, after your workflowself anneal for a while inside of yourIDE, sometimes the agent will forget toupdate. That's just because, as Imentioned, it has a ton of context andso it's going to forget some of thethings that you mentioned initially inthe system prompt like, "Hey, I want youto update your thing." So, what thedocument does is it just reviews scriptsand then it updates the directives toreflect their current behavior. A lot ofthe time in practice, what happens isyou'll have some um issues with yourscript and so the agent will go andupdate the script over and over and overand over again. And then the directivewill be untouched despite the fact thatyou spent all this time um updating thescript. And then on a fresh instance ofa new agent, maybe tomorrow or the nextday, you try running the workflow andthen it goes like, "hm, this is weird. Itried running the execution script, butit looks like it wants differentparameters. What's going on here? I Ifollowed the directive." And then, youknow, there's a big debugging step andthen it fixes it. But it takes like, Idon't know, 5 or 10 minutes. Well, justcall your document sub agent and have itjust rectify everything right then andthere instead. What you do is you giveit read access to all files and thenwrite access just to your directives.So, it can read through all of yourexecution scripts, but it can't make anyupdates to that. And then it can updatethe directives to match the executionscripts. This is pretty simple, too.Create a sub aent whose job is reviewingscripts and updating documentation soeverything aligns and just call itwhenever you update a script. Anytimeyou make a change, your main flow willthen call the document sub agent. Justdo some review. The document will reviewthe scripts and summarize the changesautomatically since it's sort of liketrained to do so with its prompt. Now,as I mentioned before, the really coolthing about sub aents is they don't justwork in sequence. Um, they can work inparallel. What I mean by parallel? Well,just like opening new tabs, sub aentslet you run tasks in parallel. Just likeopening three or four instances ofGemini and then asking each to do adifferent thing. You could just runthree or four sub agents within a singlewindow. Now, your parent agent has theability to run multiple agents what'scalled synchronously and then wait forthe results of all of them. And so, asI've talked to you guys many times, youknow, if you have some parent A, thiscan now whip up C, B, and then D, andthen it can combine the results intosome result E, loop that back around,and then just use that result to, youknow, proceed instead of doingeverything sequentially. Because thisthis can take a fair amount of time,right? If every single step here takes,I don't know, 20 minutes, that's 20minutes here, 20 minutes there, 20minutes there. Why not just likeconsolidate them all and then only haveone 20-minut step? Parallelization isprobably one of the freest wins incomputing to be honest because most ofyour CPU cores and GPU cores areliterally just left idle 99% of thetime. This is a good way that you canmake use of them. When you do this, thecontext window will also stay reallysmall. It's usually under a couplethousand tokens in the main thread to dothe thing. And then every sub aent worksindependently without cluttering yourprimary workspace, assuming that youknow you you you give it the rightsystem prompt so that it can do that.Hey, I want you to store intermediateresearch results in, you know,tmp/ressearch instead of polluting my uhparent agents context window. Now,obviously when you give sub agentsautonomy, okay, and keep in mind thatthat autonomy is also given by theparent agent. So, it's like you'remultiplying autonomies just like you'remultiplying probabilities. Obviously,safety becomes pretty important, right?And so, what I recommend is giving eachsub agent different tool access. Youneed to specifically say you can only doX, Y, or Z. So, your guardrails have tobe a lot stronger than let's say theguardrails on, I don't know, some othersort of agent. I'm just going to draw mylittle bowling ball analogy over here,but it is very much one of those things.You do need to have some sort ofguardrail. I think of it like giving myintern, you know, readonly access to myproduction database. Production databasebeing like my live actual database that,you know, people are really using. Idon't know. You know, I've had someissues in the past where people thataren't very skilled come into myorganization and then they startscrewing around with databases theyprobably shouldn't be touching and thenI don't know, they drop my tables andthen all of a sudden everything's allcrappy. So, you know, an SOP that I andI think a lot of other people probablyuse is, hey, you know, if you're new tomy organization, you only get readaccess to things. You can only like lookat it. If you want to make changes, askme. Well, sub agents are very, verysimilar. And this is obviously anarchitectural pattern that we'reborrowing from hierarchicalorganizations. This is called leaseprivilege. It's where you give eachagent only the resources it needs for aspecific job. If you think about thedocument sub aent that I was telling youabout, the document sub agent onlyreally needs to be able to read theexecutions. It doesn't need to be ableto write them. The only thing it needsto be able to write, which is sort oflike the really scary thing is thedirectives. And so in that way, weensure that it's only really ever, hey,information from executions goes intodirectives, not really the other wayaround. I could of course create like ahypers specialized optimized codingagent which has a bunch of context aboutthe best ways to do code. Then maybe Igive that read access to my directivesand write access to my executions orsomething. A couple of other limitationsabout sub agents that I want to talkabout because I think they're reallyshiny and they're fun and everybodylikes being the top of some bigorganization. They add some overhead andthey also add some latency. So spinningup a sub agent and getting some resultsback does take extra time is not instantunfortunately because you are literallyspinning up like a separate entity. Sofor simple tasks, your main agent willalmost always be faster just doing itdirectly. And so like most simple tasks,it'll just do the main thread. I'm notgoing to spin up a sub agent to do myresearch for me. Even though some ofthat is just built into the way thatthese agents now work, uh I'm just goingto be like, hey, you know, look up thisand get me the results. I'm not going tobe like, spin up the research sub agentand then feed that into thedecision-making sub aent and so on andso forth because I think that's justkind of BS. So yeah, I don't really usesub aents for most things. The time costoften isn't worth it. I'll only reallyuse it in the context of like a hyperspspecific framework like directiveorchestration execution like cloudskills and so on and so forth. So let meshow you how to actually create one ofthese sub aents. I'm using sub aents incloud code just because cloud code iscurrently like the defined sub aentpattern. So I could just say hey make mea sub aent it'll do it. I want you guysto know that you can build sub aents orat least things that are analogous tosub aents in whatever model uh structureyou want. All a sub aent really isdoesn't have a formal definition yet,but I'm going to define it is somethingthat does not have context aside fromthe input that it is given by a parentagent. So, I want to create a reviewersub agent, right? In order to create areviewer sub aent, I'm just going tolike voice dump my um my requirementsdirectly in. Hi, I'd like to create areviewer sub aent. The whole idea behindthe reviewer sub agent is it will lookat the execution scripts that anotheragent develops and it will look at itwith totally fresh eyes and justdetermine if this is done in aseffectively or efficiently a manner ashumanly possible. It will then provideinstructions to the top level agentwhich can then take that guidance andreview to improve the quality of thebuild.I'm just going to feed all that indirectly. It's then going to do sometinkering and some thinking.Then it's going to ask me a bunch ofquestions. My main goal here is I wantyou to be able to call the sub agent asrequired. So set it up in whatever wayallows you to do the calling.I also want you to check everything. Allof the above. The output format shouldjust be whatever is most amendable orconvenient for you since you are goingto be the one that is calling it. Okay.Funnily enough, I ran into a limit umearlier when I tried finishing that. So,I went and I added um what's calledadditional credits, which is pretty easyto do essentially in Claude. Anyway,your current session eventually hits acap. I'm using the Claude Max plan, so Ihave a fair amount of usage, but yeah, Ieventually do run into some sort ofissue. Uh and so what I did is I enabledthe extra usage toggle and then I said,"Hey, just use this to pay for any extrausage whenever I do." I set a very lowspending cap because I very rarely runinto sessions. It's my fault for justdoing like 20 demos today. Anyway, umafter that I then had this run on atest. So I said, "Hey, run the revieweron scrape_cross_nicheoutliers.py." So it's now actually running atest. It's saying, "Hey, read thedirective first. Understand thecriteria. Read the script completely.Produce the structure of view outputspecified in the directive. Beruthlessly honest and specific." And sothis thing is only going to have readfunctionality. And it since found me abunch of information that I could use toimprove it. script is functional but asignificant efficiency issues. ExcessiveAPI calls, no rate limiting andpotential quota exhaustion. Here theyare. Wonderful, wonderful, wonderful.This is really cool. An O squared stringmatching for 175 niche terms. Fulltranscript load only 8K characters used.So now we can do basically a fix. I'llsay great, try this on the createproposalflow. I'm doing this because um thecreate proposal flow is pretty solid,but it's also quite simple and Iactually want to see how this would workdoing a review on create proposal. It'snow spinning up base sub agent. Now theway that sub aents work at least incloud code is there's a definedstructure. They live include/comandsinside of the commands is the sub aenttool spec. As you see, we haven'tactually done that. There is no um youknow reviewer sub aent here. That'sbecause the model typically defaultsjust doing this in the directiveorchestration execution framework way byjust like having a directive called heyyou're the agent but we want to do thisin claude format specifically justbecause the probability of this workingis a lot higher on like totally fresh uroles so what I'm going to say isexcellent work before you proceed createan actual claude command for this rightnow you are using a directive to spawnthe sub aent but I instead want you tosearch through theclaw pod folder andsee how it should be done. After you'redone, update the execution script withthe reviewer sub agents thoughts.This is fantastic. It found a bunch ofdiscordant issues that probablysignificantly increased error rate. Nowwe have correct paths. Everything hereis much more on board with uh uh thedirective. And we've even gone as far asactually creating the claude command. Sothis is fantastic. What I will now sayis great test create_proposal.py with the demo sales call transcriptintmp. It found it. Now what it's doingis generating all of the information.This is the same thing that I ran in anearlier demo in case you guys are aware.It's going to use a plausible email.Create the JSON input and then test.Cool. And this actually significantlyimproved the functioning of createproposal. Previously we had to do somesome polling. Now what it does is itwaits for the document to be readybefore returning the link. Um so weactually have this um ready and we'vesignificantly improved the effectivenessof the script as well. It's a welcomesurprise. I wasn't actually expecting toimprove this. Looks like the one issuehere is it just titled this with thecompany name which made that spill overto a second line. I can obviously changethat anytime I want. But yeah, the restof this looks pretty solid. I'm notseeing any major issues here. Sofantastic work. Hopefully it's clear.You can use a reviewer sub agent and adocument sub agent to significantlyincrease the effectiveness of not justthe DO framework but your agenticworkflows in general. And that's that.Thank you very much for making itthrough the agentic workflows course. Ifyou guys have made it through the many,many hours of content, you are now in aposition where you can use and leverageaic workflows better than probably 99.9%of the rest of the population. The skillset that you guys have isextraordinarily in demand right now.Whether you want to use it for your ownbusiness, maybe a software business,maybe an agency or service business, anecom business, or in a consultingbusiness to help other people with theirbusinesses through Agentic Workflows.So, whatever category you're in, takethe knowledge that you've learned todayand use it to produce great things andaccelerate the transition to a moreefficient economy. If you guys like thissort of thing and want to learn how toimplement agentic workflows in otherpeople's businesses, please check outMaker School. It's my 90-dayaccountability roadmap that guaranteesyou your first customer for AIautomation or agentic workflowconsulting businesses. That means thatby the end of the 90-day period, youwill have your first customer or I'llgive you your money back. Moregenerally, it's just a great community.We have over 2,000 fantasticallytalented and capable people in there.It'd be great to add another. Aside fromthat, want to thank you from the bottomof my heart for making it to the end ofthe video. Have a lovely rest of the dayand best of luck implementing Agenticworkflows.