If you're still using AI in the browser,you're doing it the slow way. You see,each of these apps has a terminalversion, and they make me 10 timesfaster. I'm getting so much work done.And the AI companies are kind of quietabout this. They're marketing thesetools to developers for code. But here'swhat they're not telling you. [music]You can use them for everything. Andit's way better than their apps.Writing, research, projects, working inthe terminal is a superpower. I'm aboutto show you why. I'm literally writingthis video with these [music] toolsright now. And most people have no ideathis is a thing. But I'm telling you,once you see AI in the terminal, you'renever going back to the browser. So getyour coffee ready. We're going to myfavorite place, the terminal. But holdup before we go there. I know whatyou're thinking. Chuck, I use AI justfine. Do you? Tell me if this soundslike you because this is how I used touse AI. You're in the browser or app.You're asking questions. Research mode.You're diving deep into a project. Can'teven see your scroll bar anymore. Andthis is your fifth chat because chat GBTlost its context [music] or its mind.You also created a few more chats withClaude and Gemini to make sure Chat GBTwasn't lying. And yeah, you tried tocopy and paste some stuff into yournotes app to keep track. That neverworks. At this point, your project is a[music] mess. Spread over 20 chats, twodeep research sessions, and scatternotes. There's a better way to do this.Hear me out. It's in the terminal. Now,we're not going to waste any time. We'rediving straight into the terminal. And Iknow you probably have some questions.Put those in your pocket for a second.We'll address those. But I first justwant to show you what it looks like. Iwant you to try it so you can know it'snot really scary. The terminal is a funplace. And we're going to play withGemini CLI first. Why? Because it has avery generous free tier. That's right,you heard it, free. Now, I'll show youClaw Code in a second. That's myfavorite by far, overpowered. But theyshare a lot of the same concepts. Let'sjust get you going. We can install itwith one command. Now, go ahead andlaunch a terminal. It doesn't reallymatter where you launch it. Mac,Windows, Linux, all these terminal appswork everywhere. Great. For me, I'mgoing to use Windows with WSL or theWindows Subsystem for Linux. If you haveno idea what that is, it's totally fine.I got a video right here. So, I'lllaunch my Ubuntu terminal. Zoom in soyou guys can see and we'll copy andpaste this command. Installing GoogleGemini CLI. Ready, set, go. Coffee breakwhile that goes. Never chucked ourcoffee. And if you run into a scaryissue, run it with pseudo just likethis. And if you're on Mac, you can alsouse brew. Brew install gemini- CLI. Nowit's installed. Before we launch it,we're going to make a new directorymkdir. Then we'll call it coffeeproject. Just like this. And let's jumpin there. cd coffee project. Now we canlaunch Gemini. You'll see why I did thishere in a second. Type in Gemini. Oneword. Ready, set, go.We're here. Now, first, isn't that logojust awesome? I love the terminal. It'sso nostalgic. Now, first thing you'll dois get logged in with your Googleaccount. Everyone has a Google account.And yes, this can be a free regularGmail account. It's going to open yourbrowser, sign in, and I'm logged in.Now, don't be scared. Go ahead, ask it aquestion like, "How do I make the bestcup of coffee in the world?" I love thelittle messages they give us. hurtingdigital cats. It's doing a Google searchright now. Pretty sick. Crafting theguide. And then it responds just likewe're used to. That wasn't so bad, wasit? But notice some superpowered things.First of all, we got Gemini 2.5 Pro, thelatest and greatest model. Also, thebrowser doesn't show you this 99%context left. Every chat you have withAI has a context window. The browserhides it from you. The terminal doesnot. Also, your browser can't do this.Watch. I really want you to find thebest way to make coffee. Research thetop 10 sites. only reputable sources andthen compile the results into a documentnamed best coffee copymethod.mmd andthen create me a blog plan just anoutline. I'll do the writing. Ready,set, go. All right. Now, it's asking usa question. Do you want me to write afile for you? Do you want me to create afile for you? Yeah, dude. Go for it.This thing can do everything a[clears throat] browser can do, but ithas a superpower. It can access yourcomputer. It can read and write files.Like, I'm not copying and pasting this.It's doing it for me. I mean, look, itactually made files on our computer.There they are. Best coffee method,coffee blog. Think about that for asecond. It can access your Obsidianvault, all your notes, because those arejust files sitting there on your harddrive. It can run bash and Pythonscripts. It can do mostly everythingbecause we broke it out of the browser.Anyways, back to the terminal. If wetype in for/toolsand hit enter, you can see all thatGemini is allowed to do. You can evenadd more tools. But this feature righthere is what made me switch from thebrowser to the terminal. Watch this.Type in for slashinit.Just like that. Go. What it's doingright now is something powerful. It'screating a gemini.md file. And in theprocess, it analyzed our project, readour folder, read our files, and yes, goahead, buddy. Create that file for me.What it just did there was createinstructions for itself, context forwhat we're working on. Let's take a lookat it. Catgeemini.md. And while wedidn't do much in this project, it knowsit knows what's going on. And every timeyou launch Gemini, it's going to loadthat file as its context. Like, let'stest it. So, we still have our Geminisession open. I'll open up anotherGemini session in that same directory.This is a new conversation. Freshcontext 100% left. Notice it's using ournew Gemini.md file. And I'll tell itthis. Write the intro for blog post onein the coffee series. No more context.Just that. It should know exactly whatI'm talking about. Look at that. Yep. Goahead, buddy. I didn't give it anycontext. It just knew. This is a newchat session. And as I work, I can justask Gemini to update that file with mythoughts, research, decisions we made,the progress of our project. And look,it added a summary to what we wereworking on to our Gemini.md file. I canclose all this, start up a new session.It picks up where we left off. Noreexplaining the context, no startingover, no more 20 scattered chats. Wejust had this one file that helps keepus organized. Everything you need.You're never paralyzed again. Now, whenI saw this, I'm like, this is it. Ifinally have control over my context, myfiles, my projects. They're not stuck insome browser chat session anymore.They're right here, sitting on my harddrive. Mine, my precious. Now, I'mliterally using the gemini.md file rightnow for this project. This is a smallexample. Let me show you a big one. Thisis the gemini.md file for this video. Ittracks everything. It describes how Icreate project status, major decisions Imade, even other documents it shouldlook at. Yeah, it can do that. I'lllaunch a whole new Gemini session inthis project and I'll ask you for wherewe're at in the project.Are you seeing this? This has completelychanged the way I create or do anythingnow. And I don't just use Gemini. It'snot even close to the best one. Let'slook at Claw Code, my daily driver. ThisThis one's so crazy. Now, real quick,time for a coffee break and a bit of aPSA thanks to our sponsor, Twinate. Now,I'm teaching you and millions of otherpeople how to use AI and the terminal,which will also give AI access to yourcomputer and all your files and accessto do pretty much anything. This iscool, but also really scary. Especiallyscary if they're a remote employee.Because not only does your remoteemployee or just remote person that yougive access to your lab or your internalnetwork have access to everything over atraditional VPN, if that's what you'restill using, I'm talking your servers,file servers, NAS, because that'snormally how traditional VPNs work. Ifsomeone has remote access to thenetwork, their computer has access toeverything in the network, which meanstheir AI may have access to everythingin your network. This is insane and it'swhy traditional VPNs are dead or atleast should be. You should be usingTwinate instead. Twing is all about zerotrust network access, meaning they zerotrust people connecting to your network.And you should zero trust them too. WithTwing your employee is given access tonothing unless you explicitly give it.So Beatatric here, she's on themarketing team and given access to theNAS, but only the NAS and nothing else.And definitely not access to the supersecret file server where we keep all ourcoffee recipes. No, no, no, no, no, no.And Twing takes this to the next level.This is one of my favorite featuresright here, trusted profiles. You canmake it to where not just any device canconnect to your network and it will dochecks to see like, hey, are theyrunning Android? Sorry buddy, you're outof here. Because iPhones are clearlybetter. Everyone agrees. Or if they haveWindows, we can make sure hard driveencryption is required and they havescreen lock and a firewall and antivirusand their OS is up to date and we canblock Windows 10. All these checks willhappen before they're allowed to connectto your network. This is crazy becauseit's also free for up to five users. Ifyou're a business, it's a no-brainer.But for like a home labber, you seenthis? You can geek out with someenterprise security. It's just fun. Andspeaking of enterprises, if I create atrusted Windows profile, I can connectthis to my CrowdStrike, Intoune,Jensen1, whatever EDR or EDM I have, andhave that tell me if that device issecure or if it meets my standards. Now,me and my team, we use Twate everysingle day. If you're still usingtraditional VPN, you're crazy. Try outTwing. You can set it up in about 5minutes. And it seriously is the best,most secure way to access your home labor your business network remotely. So,go check it out.twinggate.com/networkchuckor check the link below. Thanks totwinate for sponsoring this video andthis channel. They help make my videospossible. I love my partnership withthem. Anyways, coffee break over. Backto the video. Now, I use Cloud Code,which is Claw in the Terminal, forpretty much everything. It's my default.And here's why. It has a feature thatchanges the game. Agents. Like, look atthis. I have seven agents performingtasks right now in one terminal.Actually, there's 10. And listen, that'sjust one of the seven features it hasthat keeps me glued to the terminal.Now, Cloud Code is not free, but I dohave good news. If you already pay forCloud Pro, which starts at like 20 bucksa month, you can log into the terminalwith this subscription and use it. So,yeah, you don't have to use API keys.And by the way, if you can only pay forone AI subscription, Cloud Pro is theone I would choose, especially for thelast feature I'm going to show you. Now,let's get it installed with one command.We'll copy and paste this bad boy righthere. npm install. You get it? Now Ialready have it installed. It shouldtell me that. Or ask me to do pseudo. Ityelled at me again. I'm sorry. And thenwe'll launch Claude very similarly toGemini. Just type in Claude in yourdirectory. That's it. It will prompt youto get logged in and then ask permissionto access this folder. Yes, of course.Now again, don't be afraid. Ask Claude aquestion like, "I need to find a NAS formy house. Here's my budget, what I wantto do. Create a report for me." And justlike Gemini, it does have some funlittle messages for us. It will searchthe web. It's got this nice TUI,terminal user interface. Oh, whoops. Ourthinking is off. I can press tab to turnon thinking mode. Now we're thinking.And notice it is security first. Like itdoes ask you permission to do mostthings. And that's good. We can get pastthat here in a moment if you're feelingdangerous. I am. So it responds similarto Gemini. And it can also have acontext file, too. If I run that samecommand forward slashinet, it willcreate what's called a claude.md file.Noticing a trend here. And it's doingthe same thing, looking through ourproject, trying to figure out what'swhat, and creating a context file. Andalso, similar to Gemini, we can dosomething like forward/context,which is so crazy. We can see exactlyhow many tokens we've used, how much wehave left, and exactly what's using it.But what's funny with Claude, thatdoesn't really matter too much as longas you know how to use their mostpowerful feature, agents. Let's make aClaude agent right now. It's reallysimple. We'll do for/ agents. Just likethis. We'll get a terminal menu andlet's create a home lab research expert.And I'll just tell it that. So, create anew agent. Notice it'll ask us likewhere where do you want to make it?Because you can have agents that aretied to just this project we're workingon or personal agents that are tied toeverything. You can always call them.We'll do just this project. We'll usecloud to make it. We can tell it what wewant it to be. Just gonna paste this inhere and let it go to work. Notice youcan give it access to tools or restrictaccess. We'll give it everything. Chooseour model. Sonnet's great auto color.There's our agent. Press enter to save.And we'll hit escape to get out of thatinterface. And we just made our firstagent. Home lab guru. But what's thepoint of that? Because I kind of feellike we can just ask Claude to doresearch for us because we literallyjust did that. You're right. But watchthis. I'm going to do a for/context oncemore. so we can get our baseline. We'veused 85,000 tokens. I'll give it thisprompt and I'm calling it home labagent. It'll figure it out. I'll have itcreate a document and I'll say make sureyou referencethe research we made. I can just do anat symbol and look at the documents inour directory as the NASR folder. Therewe go. Watch. It's going to use the homelab guru agent. There it is. There's ouragent researching for us right now. Now,here's why this is amazing. Actuallykind of insane. So, Clob was like,"Cool. I've got a task, but it's not forme. I'm gonna delegate this task to oneof my employees or one of my co-workers.And this is another clawed instance.It's like a guy sitting over there. He'slike, "Hey buddy, are you busy? Here'ssome work to do." He's giving him afresh set of instructions and get this,a fresh context window. You saw just nowwe have 200,000 tokens in our contextwindow. We use 42% of it. This guy, he'sgot a fresh 200. That means theconversation we're having right now, meand the main claude guy, it's protected.It doesn't get too bloated. I can givetasks to other sub agents and never haveto leave this conversation. Claude justdelegated this task to a new agent. He'sgot a fresh pot of coffee. He's he'sready to go. He just walked into work.And you can create a ton of differentagents for different purposes. I usethem all the time to protect my contextand avoid any kind of weird bias. Likefor example, here's my YouTube outlinefor this video. I'll normally be workingwith Claude on an outline like this. Andoften the context window can get prettybig. Like this is where I'm at rightnow. And let's say at this point I wanta comprehensive review of my outline. Ihave a brutal critic agent. I can justdeploy. Hey, let's have I'll just do atand call him. There he is. Agent brutalcritic. Review my outline. And by theway, this is a fun one. It's designed tojust completely roast me according tothe framework I have and the scriptinggoals. And it just deploys it. Myconversation is still sane, but I have anew energized employee. Just got a newsub. Coffee in hand, fresh eyes, readyto go. Like, look at him go. And you canrun multiple agents like I showed you atthe beginning of the segment. Let's gocheck on our home lab agent. Actually,he's been kind of busy. Oh, he's stillgoing. We're going to have the best homelab ever. And by the way, we can hitcontrol O to see what he's doing. Oh no,I interrupted him.I interrupted. Sorry. Keep going. Don'tmind me. Actually, let's open up a newwindow. Jump into our project, which westill have coffee project. It's okay.It'll figure it out. Launch Claude inthere. He's got his cloudmd file. Heknows what's going on. And let's runthis prompt. We'll launch our HomeLabagent to research the best Proxmoxservers. At the same time, do a generalagent that'll just search for the bestpizza place in Dallas, Texas. And thenanother HomeLab agent that'll find thebest graphics card for gaming right nowand put it all together in acomprehensive report. Let's go. Now,that's doing its stuff right now,deploying new employees. Over here, I'vegot the Home Lab guru working, findingthe best network equipment. I feel sopowerful right now. This is so fun.Yeah, there the three agents go. Ofcourse, you got to give it permission tosearch the web and stuff.a lot. Actually, I'll show you how toget past that here in a moment.Actually, I'll show you right now. Um,I'm going to actually interrupt them.I'm going to hit control C to get out ofthere. Control C twice. We can run thisswitch. And actually, I'll do claw- r soI can resume a previous conversation.Yes, you can do that. And then I'll dod- dangerouslyskip- permissions. This is claw withouttraining wheels. Ready, set, go. We canchoose that previous chat we had. Let'sdo this one here. Yes, I interruptedyou. I'm sorry. Go ahead and do itagain. And notice right here, bypasspermissions is on. Go.Now we're cooking, man. Look at this.Three employees, fresh cups of coffee,just going. I told you the terminal wasawesome. Let's get crazier. I'll createanother tab because no one can stop us.Jump into our project. Launch Claude indangerous mode. And what do you say wehave Claude use Gemini for research?Yes, because we can run Gemini andClaude and all these terminal tools inheadless mode, meaning you don't jumpinto a TUI. You just run them with onecommand. It's like Gemini-P and thenhere's your prompt. Find pizza. We canjust create an agent that does that.Let's make it happen. Create a newagent. I'll give it a basic prompt. Youare a research expert. You will useGemini in headless mode to research. Useit like this. That should do it. Let'scheck in our home lab guru. Yeah, hefinished up. So, looking back at ourhome lab guru, he used 40,000 tokens.Just himself, fresh employee. Let'scheck our context for this conversation.We only used 4,000 more tokens for that.It was 85. Now, we're at 88. All right.Now, let's find the best AI terminalvideos on YouTube. Use the Geminiresearch agent.And look at that. It's using Gemini tosearch. We're having an AI use an AIright now. There's the prompt. I want tohit control O. Let's check on our multi-aent. See how they're doing. They'restill working, man.All right, it finished up. Our agentused Gemini to find the top 10 videos.But this next feature is tied with howawesome agents is. And I'm embarrassedto say I just found this out whilemaking this video. Now, Claw Code, itwas built for coders. It's in the name,but I hacked it kind of. Cloud code hasa feature called output styles. Look atthis for/output style. We got a fewdefaults in here. And these essentiallycontrol the system prompt for claw code.How it's going to respond to you, thepersona it has. The default is code andthat's what we're using. But we canchange that. Let's create a new one. SoI'll go back here, type in output styleagain, and do output style new. It'sactually an agent. I didn't know that.Let's just be simple. You are a home labexpert designed to help me create thebest home lab possible. That's it. Now,we can get a lot crazier than that, butyou get the idea. And that's it. If Itype in output style, there it is. I canadopt that right now. Or when I back outand I jump back in, I think it shouldadopt that style by default. Yes, itdoes. You can create output styles thatare tied to just your project or as awhole. Whatever project you jump into,you can switch to those output styles.I'm using the output style right now tomake this video. You want to see it?Script writing output style. And this iswhat it looks like. It's pretty intense.Optimized for what I do. Now, honestly,this entire video could be about Claude.There are so many features. Like, youcan do shift tab to cycle between modes.One of my favorites is planning mode.Hit shift tab there. Plan mode on.This will put a very well thoughtoutplan together. And then you approve itand then it just does it like there itis. And no, keep planning or yes, let'skeep doing it. And there are so manythings I can't dive into them. Like theyhave prompts, hooks, custom statuslines, you can paste images into yourterminal. But here's the thing. I don'tjust use claw code. I use Gemini. I useclaw code and I use codeex which ischadbt's terminal tool all at the sametime. Let me show you how. Gemini claudecode chadbt's codeex. I'm using allthree right now to work on this videoscript. How? Two steps. First, as longas I open up Claude, Gemini, and Codeexin the same directory, they're all usingthe same context. It's the same project.Let's do that right now.Claude, Gemini, if I spell it right, andCEX. The second thing I do is I makesure my context files are all synced up.They all say the same thing. Sogemini.mmd, claw.md, and agents.mmd,which is what codeex uses, and they'retrying to make it a standard. They'reall the same. And I usually have aterminal open for each one while I'mworking on a script or any kind ofproject. Watch this. I'll tell Claude towrite a hook for this video. Authorityangle. Write it to authorityhook.md.I'll have Jimi write a hook on adiscovery angle. write it todiscovery hook.mmd and then I'll havecodeex review itand that's normally what I do. I findjadbt is very good at analyzing thingsfrom a high view. Gemini and cloud arevery good at the work the deep work andlook at it go. They're all using thesame context different roles. I mean Ihave three different AIs working on thesame thing at the same time. No copyingand pasting. They can see each other'swork. They're working in the samedirectory. That's awesome. And it'sdone. Looks like Claude won this one.Good job, Claude. Now, are you seeingwhat's happening here? This is thecraziest part about this. Everything I'mdoing, talking with these threedifferent AIS on a project. It's nottied in a browser. It's not tied in aguey. It's just this folder right hereon my hard drive. I can copy and pastethat folder anywhere. All the work, allthe decisions, all the context, it'smine. And that's the difference. Nothingannoys me more than when Chad GBT triesto fence me in, give me that vendor lockin so I can't leave. No, I reject that.I own my context. If a new, greater,better AI comes out, I'm ready for itbecause all my stuff is right here on myhard drive. I will use all AI. I willuse the best AI. No one can stop me. So,I got a little excited there. And that'swhat I want you to take away here.Leaving the browser, going to yourterminal, puts you back in control, andit gives you better features. But now, Iwant to get real practical. I want toshow you exactly how I run a projectlike this. how I keep things in sync,how I keep my Claude, Gemini, and agentsfiles in sync and work on a daily basisusing a system like this. I'm going torefill my coffee. I'll see you there.Okay, this video was made with thisprocess. First thing I want to show youis how things are synced up,specifically my Claude file, my Geminifile, and my agents file, which iscodeex. It's an agent. That's all it is.So, if I get back to my terminal here,where I was showing you earlier when wehad our hooks developed, Claude madeone, Gemini made one, and Codexcritiqued it. I'm rely on Claude to runmy agent that will close out everything.So, I'll just normally do this. When I'mdone for the day, I'll go, "Hey,let's close this out." Run. And I'llmention my agent script session closer.Let me show you what that looks like.This is one of those agents I keep as apersonal agent. I use it for manyprojects. And these agents are justfiles. They're files inside an agentsfolder.I'll c that file here. Script sessioncloser. And here it is. It does a lot ofstuff, but some of the key things itdoes, actually, while I'm talking withyou about this, I'm going to go and runthe agent because we did some stuff,didn't we? I'll run the agent. Butfirst, it'll gather everything we talkedabout, everything we did, and do acomprehensive summary. It will thenupdate a session summary file that'sspecific to just updating what are somethings that were done in the pastsessions. It will see if any coreproject files need to be updated. And ifI'm talking with Claude, it will updateevery context file. Claude, Gemini,agents. And then this is probably myfavorite part. I commit my project to aGitHub repo. So, normally you would usegit for code, right? For writing anddeploying code. I treat my scripts andpretty much every project I work on inmy life like code. We commit thatchange, give a reason for that change.So, I can see a history of why what Idid and why I did it. Maybe somethingbreaks. I can go back to that change andreinstate it. That's the power of usingGitHub with all your ideas. Now, this iskiller for me because I'm really bad atdocumentation. I'm really bad at keepingtrack of things, but now I have thishelp me keep track of things. So, whenI'm really tired at the end of the dayand like I've been working on a videoand my mind is fried, I'm like, "Okay,tell you what, I'm done. Close thisout." It will look through all thisstuff. It will figure out where I'm at,end the end the project, end the day,where where I need to be, and then I canstart fresh the next day and be like,"Hey, um, where we at? What are weworking on?" It can tell me, "Hey,Chuck, you finished the script. It'stime to record. We made these threedecisions. Go for it." That's it. Like,this this is the tool I've been lookingfor. The syncing is probably my favoritepart. No, no, actually, this thing is myfavorite part. How it roasts me. So, Idon't really use these AI terminal toolsto help me create. I use them tocritique me and make me better. So, hereare my critics. These guys are sostinking mean. And I designed them tobe. They are agents. I got the brutalcritic. I told him to be mean. So, I hadan issue where my AI was being way tooagreeable. Like, I'd write a writesomething and be like, "Oh, Chuck, bestthing you ever wrote." I'm like, "Ah,you're gaslighting me. Stop it." Iwanted something to be super mean. Iwanted to be hard to please. So, thatwhen I when it did tell me I did a goodjob. I knew it. Like, it was good. Andthat's what this thing does. So, like,actually, I'm curious if my script rightnow is any good. I actually have notused it yet on this, which I normallydon't do. It's bad. Um, let's see. I'llsay use the brutal critic to absolutelyroast and verify my stuff is good inthis script. I'll just reference myscript because again everything's a filelocal here on my file system. I mean youcan just move so quickly and nimly whenyou have a system like this and theagent's going to go. It's going to doits thing. And again what I love aboutthis is while I've been talking withthis AI for a minute, right? We've beengoing back and forth doing things. If Iasked that session to review me, itwould have a ton of bias coming intothat based on like what we've beentalking about. I don't want that. I wanta fresh cup of coffee critic coming ingoing, "Here's what I know Network Chuckneeds to have." And I'm going to roasthis current script on what he's doing.That's what I need. And notice it wasreally quick. Editor Fream on that. Ihave inside it instructions to read someframework documents I have that describehow I create and describe like what mything is, who my audience is. Again, Idon't copy and paste. I got contextalready here. You can reference that. Ilove this so much. This is my favoritething. I had to make a video about thiscuz I wouldn't stop telling my wifeabout it and she was going crazy.>> Whenever he talks to me, I it just goesin one ear and out the other.>> I tell everyone about this. I'm actuallyreally scared about what it's going tosay. Oh no. Okay, [laughter]let's see what it said. Said when I fixit, it'll be good. What did it tell me?Oh, it's an 8.2. That's not bad. No, Iforgot I did this. The brutal critic hasthree personalities or three people thatcome in and roast it from differentangles. I forgot I did that. It'sinsane. Okay, I don't like this. I'm notsure I agree with this. We'll see. Itsays segment five is a feature dump.Nine features, zero depth, 5 to 8%retention drop, which means you'll stopwatching. Let's prove it wrong. Segmentfive is coming up. We're currently insegment four. Jump there if you want to.I don't care. Tell me if it's bad. It'sactually really cool, I hope. Butseriously, doing stuff like this savesme hours. Now, also I want you to knowthis, like it's not writing for me.Like, I'm doing the writing cuz I I liketo keep that. I think that's importantnow with AI, but I do have AI like roastme, help me stay on track because I getdistracted. I might make some really badcreative decisions that aren't in linewith what we're trying to do. Now, thepoint I want to hit home is that I madethis for me. This is my own personalsoftware, exactly my use case. What canyou build for you that's just for youand your niche and whatever you'retrying to make make happen? And this isjust one tool I've made. Look at theother stuff I've done. That crazyproject I showed you in the beginning[laughter] was running like sevenagents. This is a customuilt projectjust with cloud code. And I'm going touse it right after I record this. It'sgoing to go through every every file.It's going to transcribe it, read it,and give my editors notes they need tobe able to edit this video. Like, hey,Chuck repeated himself 17 times in inthe fourth video, and it's a disaster.Ignore that one. It will do that.Seriously, the tools I create are sopowerful for me. I wake up every dayfeeling like I have superpowers. I wantthis for you. Now, speaking ofsuperpowers, let's talk about segmentfive. There's a tool that's actuallyopen source. Now, you can use any modelyou want with this open-sourcealternative. And it might be the besttool of all of them. I'm still testingit. You also get Grock free, which ispretty sick. And a really powerful partof this is you can log in with yourCloud Pro subscription and use it likeCloud Code. Let's play with it. It'scalled Open Code. We can install it withone command. I'll have all thesecommands below.installing. That was quick. And that'sit. If I can just launch open code. Justtype it in like this. That does it. Oh,let me uh do a source because it adds tomy bash rc file. You might have to dothis, too. sourcebashrc. Now, let's try it. You can open andclose your terminal and do the samething. Oh, we're here. This is opencode. A nice 2 terminal user interface.Couple things real quick. They launchedus straight into Grock code fast one.They have a deal with Grock AI thatallows you to use this for free for awhile. So, same story. Hey, Grock Code'shelping us. Even knows like, hey, can Ihelp you with your coffee project? Nomass stuff.So, it read the document and it can doall the stuff. Okay, cool. I'm going toexit out. We can use local models. Thisis the killer part. I don't think anyother tool does this, but we have to uhedit a file. So, I want to nano and Ithink it's insideconfigopen code. Yeah, that's the directory.And then I think the co the file has tobe open code.jsonC. I'll paste this in here. I'm going touse uh let's do llama 3.2. I thinkthat's what I have installed. We'll findout. I'll save that. Let me see. Oh,llama list. See what my models are. Do Ihave 3.2? I'll pull it down if I don't.And then when I launch open code againwith that config in place. Oh, wait.What did I break? Let me fix that filereal quick.There we go. I should be able to goforward/model and change to llama 3.2.Hey, cool. Llama works. If I back out, Ican log into cloud with this command.Open code o login. I can chooseanthropic with my cloud pro. And I'lllaunch this browser.Paste this code in there. And now I'mlogging the cloud code. I just launchopen code now and switch models tocloud. Sonet 4.5 and we can pick upwhere we left off. I guess again all ourfiles are local. Doesn't matter whattool we use. It's all ours right here. Ican switch models midway. Let's go backto Grock. Cool. What's our next step?Cool. While it's doing that, I can donew session. This is a new session. Pushmodels to claude. I can do sessions. Seeall the sessions I have. Why do I haveso many? Oh, these are my past sessions.We can also share these sessionsfor/share. And watch this. This is socrazy. I think is it going to do it? Oh,the URL is copied to my clipboard. So, Ican go to my browser, paste that URL in,and I can I mean, look at that. That'sawesome. Wait, is it live?You can share your session with people.That's pretty neat. Okay. Um, we can dotimeline. We can jump back in time andrestore. I guess like if we don't likehow far we've come in our conversation,we just go back. I want that in reallife. That's awesome. We can also, if Ijump out of there and do opencode--help,they've got agents. You can start an aheadless server. You can attach toheadless servers. Export your session asJSON data. I mean, this this tool ispretty cool. And the fact that you canlog in and use your Cloud Prosubscription, like that's that's nextlevel because otherwise you're puttingin an API key and you're paying per use.And that's a whole nightmare. I don'tI'd rather pay up front. What's fun isI've been following these guys onTwitter before they started making thiscode open code. This guy Dax, these guysare killing it. So, how do you feelabout your browserbased gooey AI now?Pretty bad, right? Kind of feels likehammer and chisel or chisel and hammer.I never know how to say it. Cuz now youcan control your context. Break out ofthat browser, that chat window, anddon't let the terminal scare you. Imean, I know it's kind of intimidatingif you're not used to working in theterminal. If you can get past that, thistool is for everyone. Everyone should beusing this. Like, make everyone usethis. I'm going to make my kids usethis. I don't know about my wife. I'mnot sure if she's going to do it.Seriously, nothing is stopping you fromtrying this right now. Gemini CLI,that's free. Open code, you can runlocal models if you're worried aboutthat. And while Cloud Code is paid, it'soverpowered. Like, you saw all thosefeatures. I I use that every day, dude.Just you got to try it. Dip your toe inthe water. It's fine. It's awesome. Youwill feel like you have a superpower andbuild whatever you want. Now, do youwant to go even deeper? You can addtools, MCP servers to any of theseterminal environments. I made a videoabout doing MCP servers here. You canadd it to all these. Check it out.That's the video. I'll catch you guysnext time. Oh, by the way, have youhacked the YouTube algorithm today? Justmake sure you do. Hit that like button,subscribe, comment notification[laughter]bell. You got to hack YouTube today.Ethically, of course. Oh, and also letme know which is your favorite terminalAI tool. Or if if you even care. LikeI'm curious. Do you care about this?Because I care a lot, obviously. Tell mebelow. Yeah, that's it for real.Hey, you made it to the end of thevideo. Uh, this portion of the video Ilike to reserve for praying for you. Youare a person. Well, actually, I can'tsay that anymore. It might be AI. Idon't know. If you're a person, this isfor you. Uh, you have a life. You've gotgoals. You've got things you're tryingto do. You're watching this videobecause you want to learn something new.Um, I want to pray for that. I want topray for your life. This may not be yourthing. Totally cool. You can click off.That's fine. So, I put it at the end ofthe video. But if you stay, thank you.The reason I'm doing this is because Ido believe in the power of prayer. Thereason I do anything on this channel tohelp people or all the things I'm doingis because of Jesus. He saved me. He'sempowered me to do everything I'm doing.And I don't know what your beliefs areon that. Regardless, I just want to prayfor you. That's it. So, let's do it realquick. God, I thank you for the personwatching this video right now. Um, Ithank you that they are excited abouttech and their lives and wanting to dosomething cool because otherwise, whywould they be here? I pray that youwould just fill them with joy about thefuture, that you remove any anxiety,that you give them peace, that you woulduh bless their families and let theirfamilies be healthy and strong. And ifthere's anything going on in their livesright now that are really hard, that'sjust really hard to get through. Umdivorce or just any kind of sin that'sreally bogging them down. Jesus, I praydeliverance over them right now that yougive them uh a path forward and just letthem be excited about their career. Ipray you go before them and make theirpath straight, God. That you wouldcreate opportunities for them and thatthey would take these skills they'relearning and do something really fun andcool with them that will provide fortheir families and give them a brightfuture. I pray this over them, God. Andultimately, I pray that all of this willlead them to maybe one day just knowingyou more deeply, knowing you better, andknowing that having a relationship withyou is is the greatest gift, thegreatest thing that there's nothinggreater you can attain apart fromknowing you, Jesus. I thank you for thisperson and uh I just thank you for thiscommunity and for letting us do thiscool stuff. It's a privilege.In Jesus name I pray. Amen. All right.Thanks, guys. I'll see you in the nextone.