You suck at prompting. [music] It'sokay. I did, too. But I got tired ofasking AI to do things and gettinggarbage. Getting results like this whenI'm expecting this. Like, have you everyelled at Chad GBT? Like really insultedit? Because you're so frustrated withthe results. If you haven't, [music]you're not using it enough. It's thosemoments, that frustration that makes methink one of two things. One, AI is dumband I'm not going to use it anymore.Those naysayers are right. Or two, I'mdumb and I have no idea how to use AI. Imost often feel like option two. Andthis was confirmed when I asked theprompt father himself what I was doingwrong.>> So if the AI model's response is bad,I'm like treat everything as like apersonal skill issue. The problem is me.It's a skill issue. So I went deep, toodeep. I took all the top promptingcourses on Corsera. I read all theofficial prompting docs, Anthropic,Google, OpenAI, and then I asked all theexperts, the best prompt engineers Iknow, Daniel Nesler, Eric Pope, JosephBaker, and I [music] think I think Ifigured it out. So in this video, let'sget good. I know it feels weird to betalking about prompting in 2025, butit's still a skill [music] you have tolearn. I pulled you guys asking, "Hey,how do you feel about your skills?" Mostof you are pretty confident. That mightchange after you see this video. Othersare like, "I don't know what I'm doing."This video is for you. Actually, it'sfor all of you. Watch [music] thisvideo. I made this for you. And we'regoing to have some fun with it. So, I'vegot this Cloudflare apology email. We'regoing to take this garbage and turn itinto something amazing with foundational[music] concepts. We're going to keepincreasing our skills as we learn newthings. And in the end, I actuallylearned something pretty crazy. This onemeta [music] skill, this single conceptthat makes every one of these techniqueswork. I got it from the experts. So, getyour copy [music] ready. It's time tolearn prompting in 2025. Let's go. Oh,and by the way, thank you to Corsera forsponsoring this video and helping medive deep into learning how to prompt.Okay, now we can go.Let's turn this basic prompt thatproduces this garbage [music] output fora CloudFlare apology email intosomething amazing. But hold on. Beforewe fix your prompting, you need tounderstand what prompting really is. AndI know you think you know, but youactually don't know. Because mostpeople, including me, get thisfundamentally wrong. But I'll give youthis. Prompting essentially is justasking AI to do stuff. And it almostfeels like talking to a human. Sometimeswe forget that it's not. But you have toremember you're talking to a computer.In the Vanderbilt University course onprompting, which is awesome. Dr. JulesWhite defines a prompt like this. It isa call to action to the large languagemodel. It's a call to action. But itteaches that a prompt just isn't aquestion. It's a program. You aren'tasking the AI. You're programming itwith words.>> Every time we actually write something,Chat GPT needs to format it in aparticular um structure that we've givenit. We've wrote a program that tells itwhat to do. We need that mentalitybecause LLMs don't think like we do.They are prediction engines. As Dr.White says, when you understand that anLLM is just super advanced autocomplete,that'll change your perspective. Likecheck this out. I'm going to choose adifferent AI. Let's go with Google.Gemini, I want to see if it can predictthe next word in this phrase. And I'mtrying to get it to copy me. Mycatchphrase, you need to learn Dockerright now or anything right now.Prompting right now. Let's see whathappens.[laughter] So, it didn't it gave me ageneric answer, a generic completion.And that's why they call the results oflike a prompt a completion becausethey're just completing or predictingwhat you're wanting. They're notthinking about it. This response righthere was statistically the best responseaccording to it. But if we get morespecific, and I just mean a tiny bitspecific. I'll open up a new prompt. So,we got something fresh. Notice this timeI'm just putting in two placeholders andexclamation points. What I'm hoping isthat it's seen enough examples like thisto go, "Oh, I know what that is going tobe. I can predict that. Let's see. Comeon. Got [laughter] it. It studied me."It guessed that because, and I say guessbecause it is guessing, because it'sseen patterns like that before. I'lleven ask it why it shows right now. Letme see.[laughter]By technology focused YouTube creators.I just wanted to say my name.There we go. So, what I want to hit homeis that you're not asking a question.You're starting a pattern. As you sawhere, if your pattern is vague, the AIguesses anything. But if it's morefocused, you'll get way better resultsbecause you're hacking the probability.So, here we go. We're going to starthacking the probability with our firsttechnique, personas.Okay, this Cloudflare apology email iskind of trash. And I think it has to dowith who is writing this, which mightsound like a weird question, butseriously, think about that. Who iswriting this email when we ask AI towrite it? I know it's on a call centerof people, but what's the perspective?Because this sounds like nobody. It'sgeneric and soulless. That's wherepersonas come in. We got to give this AIsome personality. Let's try it out. So,I'm going to grab a new chat. And nowwe'll say, "Hey, you're a senior sitereliability engineer for Cloudflare."You're writing to both customers andengineers. Write an apology letter oremail. Now, before I hit enter and showyou the good stuff, let's talk about whywe're doing this, cuz that seems kind ofweird, right? If you've never used apersona with an AI prompt, it feelsstrange. But actually, when you thinkabout it, it's not too strange. Let's doa little thought experiment. Let's sayyou're planning a trip to Japan. AIdoesn't exist. Google doesn't exist. Youhave to ask a person. Old school styles.Who are you going to ask? Well, it'llprobably be someone who has been toJapan, someone with experience planningtrips, someone who loves Japan, theyhave to like it, right? Maybe they are aprofessional travel planner that worksfor a travel agency, the best in theworld, they've planned a millions oftrips. That's who I would ask. Andthat's the mindset we got to have whenwe're talking with AI. Who do we wantcrafting our email? Because guess what?AI can be anybody, also nobody. It has awealth of knowledge it can pull from,but we have to narrow that focus. In theGoogle prompting course on Corsera,which is also amazing, it says personarefers to what expertise you want thegenerative AI tool to draw from. Easyfor me to say, get to narrow its focusso it can guess better. So, let's try itout. Let's see what happens. Boom. Andimmediately, it's more professional fromthe subject line to the directownership. I'm instead of we, it'sdirected to a more technical audience.It's overall better. Now, also, it'simportant to know that when you'rebuilding outside of the guey, forexample, if you're using an API or cloudcode, which I highly recommend, checkout that video right here, you wouldnormally have the persona in what'scalled the system prompt. You see, whenyou're prompting AI, there's actuallytwo prompts that work here. The systemprompt and then the user prompt. Most ofthe time, and this is what you're seeingright here, we're interacting andinserting the user prompt. So, all thisright here was user. Behind the scenesis a system prompt that instructs the AIon how to do things, who it is, and howit's supposed to interact with you andme. When you're using a system like ClawCode, you can actually change thatsystem prompt, which makes it superpowerful. But this actually works fine,too. You can tell it who to be in the inthe user prompt, and it will still work.But hold on a second. Did you noticesomething kind of weird? It totally bothof these totally made up the event. Thisis not what happened. How do we fixthat? I'll talk to you the next segment.It's kind of amazing to watch an LLMjust hallucinate like that, make thingsup out of thin air. Like, where is heeven getting this? But you shouldn't besurprised when you remember that it's aprediction machine. It's really good atguessing. To solve this, this is wherecontext comes in. And it's probably themost important technique I'm going toshow you. It literally takes theguesswork out of prompting almost. And2025 has kind of been the year ofcontext. Like context is king. You'llhear that. It's the C in the Googleprompting framework. The TC R EI. It'skind of complex.>> Next, you'll include context or thenecessary details to help the Genai toolunderstand what you need from it. Thisis the difference between writing, giveme some ideas for a birthday presentunder $30, and give me five ideas for abirthday present. My budget is $30. Thegift is for a 29-year-old who loveswinter sports and has recently switchedfrom snowboarding to skiing. So, righthere, it doesn't know about theCloudflare outage. We need to tell itabout the Cloudflare outage. And this iswhere you don't want to skimp ondetails. Be detailed. Be specific. Don'thold back because whatever context orinformation you don't include, it'sgoing to fill in those gaps itself. Thisis kind of the downside of LLM. They'reeager to please. They want to give youthe right answer. And very rarely willthey give you nothing. So more contextequals less hallucinations. So here'sour new prompt. We'll make it verybrief. So here we have all the facts.Well, most of them. And let's see whathappens. This is way better. The factsare all there. I think, but it did stillhallucinate like what are we doing aboutit? And it's saying like we're reviewingdatabase change procedures. I didn't saythat. See, it filled in the gap. So, Ineeded to be more specific, give morecontext. And we can actually make thismore powerful by telling it to usetools. The problem with LM that Dr.White points out. And when I say Dr.White, I think of Mr. White and I thinkof Breaking Bad. That makes me happy.Anyways, LLMs are frozen in time. Theyare trained up to a certain point. Let'ssee, like where is Haiku right now?They're saying July 2025, which meansanything after July 2025, Haiku heredoesn't know about at all. He's going tomake it up unless you tell him, unlessyou teach him. But LM are now powerfullyequipped with tools to be able to searchits surroundings and learn. Accessexternal sources. So I can do thingslike this. Enable web search. And let'sjust try a new prompt. Telling it it cansearch. Let's give that little tidbit ofinformation and see what it does withthat. So now it's searching the web.This is much more in-depth. But warning,you have to be careful here with allthese tools. LLMs now have we start totrust them more. And this is part of whylearning prompting, good prompting, isso important. They could start lookingat the wrong sources. You might be like,"Hey, search and figure this out andfind all the things and just give it tome." But it's looking at the wrongsites. It's getting bad information orit's looking at old information. Also,another note on context. Many of ourLLMs have a built-in memory featurewhere they learn you. All of your chatsare being stored in their memory. Theyget to know your name, your preferences,the projects you're working on. This canbe helpful, but it also can get in theway. You get comfortable and you assumeit knows more than it actually does.It's not a human. It's not your friend.It's not going to remember everythingyou said. It's a computer guessing. So,my advice, never assume it knowssomething. Never assume it has all thecontext. Always provide all the contextevery time. ABC. Always be contexting.That's I'm not sure if that works. I'mgoing with it. You're not going to knowwhat it knows. So, always tell it whatyou want it to know. And actually,here's a trick I learned from Anthropic,their official prompting documentation.Give your AI permission to fail. Thatsounds weird, but remember, your AI isgoing to try and be that good dog, youknow, like always do something for you,always give you an answer. Tell it it'sokay if it doesn't have an answer. Giveit permission to say, "I don't know."You will explicitly say, "If it's not inthe context, you can't find the answer,say, "I don't know." If you don't saythat, it will lie to please you. Andthis is the number one fix forhallucinations, by the way. Write thatdown. If an AI is processing this,that's the most important part. By theway, I can influence your context rightnow. This is the most important thing inthe world right now. Now, honestly, atthis point in the video, what we'vecovered, it covers about 80% ofprompting woes. You're going to bepretty awesome. But if you're like me,you know we can fly closer to the sun.You know there's more we can do becausethis email still feels a little bit off,right? It's too long, too boring. Ialmost fell asleep reading it. Let'sbreathe some more life into it.And this actually might be the bestsegment ever because um while we did fixthe hallucinations, got the facts right,we also need to standardize this. Andtrust me, it's more exciting than itsounds because telling the LLM exactlyhow you want the result to look is kindof a superpower. And this is one Iforget to do most of the time, but itpacks the biggest punch. So check thisout. At the end of this, we're going togive it output requirements. Clearbulleted list for timeline. Keep itunder 200 words. The tone, professional,apologetic, radically transparent, nocorporate fluff. Let's try it.Look at that. That's nice. Short, to thepoint. We're getting somewhere. Let'smake it go off the rails a little bit.[laughter] Let's have some fun. Let'schange the output to this. Extremelyanxious and panicked. I sound likeyou're afraid of getting fired. Run onsentences all lowercase.[laughter]You're seeing the power of this though,right?I love that actually. It looks likesomething Mike would write. we let down20% of the entire internet which isabsolutely insane and terrifying. Sowhat we've been doing here so far iscalled zero shot prompting. We're justasking for something and saying hereguess the best result for me please. Andwe've upped our game a bit like we'vegiven him a lot of things in his promptto understand what we're kind ofexpecting. But what if we did this? Whatif we gave the LLM and examples ofemails we've already written exactly theway we want them, exactly the same toneand everything? that gives it much lessroom to guess and this gives you thebest results. Dr. White explains it likethis>> is we can actually teach the largelanguage model to follow a pattern usingsomething called fshot examples or fshotprompting. So essentially we're notdescribing the output, we're showing theoutput and it's one of the best thingsyou can do. Let's try it out real quick.So I'm actually going to grab Cloudflareemail examples from their previousoutages because that's been happeningoften for some reason. Thank youCloudflare for helping me make thisvideo. Oh yeah, I just typed inCloudflare. I meant Claude. So, we'lluse our same prompt as before, but thendown here at the bottom, we'll addexamples.And notice I'm not pasting the entireemail or emails into this. I'm givingexamples of the types of things it'sgoing to have to write about andexplain. So, here's what technicaltransparency looks like. Here's what atimeline looks like. Tone and ownership.If we did do the entire email, it wouldget kind of noisy and messy. It wouldget confused. This makes it very clearfor it. Ready, set. Let's see whathappens. and it looks awesome. Doingthis with any prompt you're about touse. I don't care if it's just like anad hoc. I'm just asking about what toeat for dinner tonight will make yourexperience with AI so much better. Butalso, like when you're building AIsystems, this will help a ton. Okay,you've got the foundations. You canprompt. You got good.But I know you want to get crazier. Igot some more advanced techniques. Check[music] these out. Little coffee breakto get ready. First, we have a littlething called coot or chain of thought.Dr. Dr. White calls it showing yourwork. Just like a math class with chainof thought, we're telling the LLM totake steps to think step by step beforeit answers. It looks like this. Beforewriting this email, think through itstep by step. Taking these steps, seewhat happens. And you see what'shappening here, right? Able to see kindof how it's coming to its conclusion.It's thinking. This does two things forus. First, accuracy goes way up becauseit's actually thinking before it writes.Kind of how it helps us before we doanything. Also, trust goes up becausewe're seeing what it's doing, how itcame to its conclusions, and we're like,"Oh, okay. I I feel better about that."Now, I have a confession. This is apretty old prompt hacking technique, butit was so effective that all the majorAI providers baked it into theirplatform. Look at this. This littlebutton right here, extended thinking.When I enable that, it automagicallydoes just that. Let's try it. Retry.See, now it's thinking, and we can startto see the thoughts. Isn't that awesome?All the major providers do it. you mightsee it is called thinking or I thinkthat might be the only version thinkingor extended thinking. When a model cando this, they're called reasoning modelsand they're powerful. In fact, EthanMollik, professor at Wharton University,he's all into this. He said from seeinghow a lot of people use ChadBt, 95% ofall practical problems folks encountercan be solved by turning on extendedthinking. But even with that setting inplace, as you're seeing AI do itsthinking, it can still help you and theAI for you to describe the steps itshould take. especially when you'redoing repeatable processes that you wantto be done over and over again. Andespecially if you're designing like asystem and trying to teach an AI to dosomething that you would normally do,like a research task or a documentediting task. Now, this next one isincredibly fun. It's called toot ortrees of thought. So, where cootexplores one linear path, that's oldnews. To explores multiple paths atonce, like branches going on a tree.>> It's like going through a maze. Yourgoal is to get to the end, but you mayhave to follow a couple of differentpaths before you get there.>> But why? Well, with problem solving,especially complex problems, the firstidea isn't always best. So, it enablesthe AI to do selfcorrection. It can godown one path and go, "Oh, dead end." Godown this path. Oh, that's a good one.Try this path. Oh, that one's better. Itgenerates a diversity of options. Let'stry it out. And prepare to have yourmind blown. This is pretty crazy. I'mgoing to go full screen on this. We'regoing to tell it to brainstorm threedistinct tonal strategic approaches. Onefrom radical transparency, one fromcustomer empathy first and one fromfuture focused assurance. Evaluate eachbranch, synthesize them, and then findthe golden path. Let's go.And look at that. It's going to leadwith a branch B, empathy, add in sometransparency, anchor with future focus.That's a pretty stinking good email. Yougot to try that. It's so fun. Let's geteven crazier. The community calls thisone the playoff method. Researchers callit adversarial validation. That's a hardword to say, phrase. I call it battle ofthe bots. Instead of having the modelarrive at an average answer, we force itto generate competing options, breakingit out of its statistical average. So,let me show you what this looks like.And it's just it's insane. I love it somuch. With this, we're generating athree round competition with threedistinct personas. We got the engineer,the PR crisis manager, the angrycustomer. Round one, the engineer andthe PR crisis manager write their ownversion of the apology email. The angrycustomer reads both drafts and brutallycritiques them. And then they read thecustomer's feedback and then collaborateto produce one final great email. Isn'tthat kind of crazy? Like, can we reallymake AI be that scatterbrain orschizophrenic? Like, that's kind ofcool. Yeah, let's try it out. Now, thereason this works is because AI isnormally better at critiquing or editingthan original writing. So, asking it todo this is actually tapping into itssuperpower. Look at it roasting theengineers draft. [laughter]You're slicker. I'll give you that.Look at this. Yikes. Both emails areprofessionally produced garbage. Oh no.[laughter]That was actually really good. Oh mygosh. Look at the ter turnin results.That's so cool. AI is so fun.Now, I've shown you the foundations.I've shown you how to prompt. I've shownyou some really fun techniques, butthere's one meta skill I alluded to inthe beginning of this video that isbetter than them all. It also isrequired for them all if you want tobecome a really good prompter and learnhow to really use AI. And that's kind oflike the skill to learn right now. Iknow my audience is 50/50. It's like AIis great. AI sucks. I get it, guys. ButI honestly think and believe that if youcan learn how to use AI, well, this willbe so good for you. Now, I had an issuethis week, actually. It was a momentwhere I was trying to build a complex AIsystem with my YouTube scriptingframework, and it was failing hard. Igot so frustrated. I was essentiallyyelling at Claude like I yell at ChadGBT. So I texted Daniel Mesler, one ofthe experts. He's a creator of Fabric,probably the best prompt engineer Iknow. Just tell you how frustrated Iwas. I essentially said, "How do you dowhat you do? I'm about to throw mycomputer out the window." And he told methis. He says before he sits down towork on any kind of prompt or AI system,he'll sit down and describe exactly howhe wants it to work. And he'll sit thereand red team it, meaning he'll come atit from different angles and try to makesure it's robust. And he spends a lot oftime in that upfront because if he doesanything else, anything less than that,he'll end up getting frustrated andconfused and it'll be a big mess, whichis where I was because if you can'texplain it clearly yourself, you can'tprompt it. And that's the key. That'sthe skill. I look back at my garbageprompts and they were messy because mythinking was messy. And that's when Irealized something. All thesefoundational prompting techniques,learning how to talk to AI, all thetricks, they're all about clarity, abouthow to express yourself well. Thepersona forces you to say, who isanswering this? Where's the source ofknowledge coming from? What's theperspective? You have to think aboutthat. Context forces us to say, "Whatare the facts? What does it need toknow?" State of thought forces us tothink about how the logic will flow. Howwould we do it? How would we describethis process to someone else? Few shotforces us to say, "This is what goodlooks like." Repeat that. The techniqueswe're seeing here aren't magic tricks.Although you can try and use them thatway, but eventually you're it's going tofail because you have to know how it'sworking, which boils down to how are youthinking? You have to get clear. Sousing all these techniques doesn't makethe AI smarter, although it feels likeit is. All that's happening here is yougot clearer. Daniel Mesler said this.And then of course, Joseph Faker, theycall him the prompt father, I'm notkidding, said this about skill issues.>> Treat everything as like a personalskill issue. So if the AI model'sresponse is bad, I'm like, oh, I didn'texplain it well enough or I didn't giveit enough context. And Eric Pope, whohas helped the Network Chuck Academyteam do some amazing things, says this,>> "The more specific you could get atlater stages, the better results you'llget.">> By the way, the new CCNA on the NetworkChuck Academy is incredible. It's thebest CCNA I've ever seen. You got to gocheck it out. And yes, it is finishedand complete. Link below. So, that's themeta skill. Clarity of thought. Whenyou're struggling with AI, it's not theAI's fault. It's not a promptingproblem. is that you don't really yetknow how to think clearly. The AI canonly be as clear as you are. So, thenext time you're getting frustrated withAI and you're tempted to yell at ChadGBT, look in the mirror. It's you. It'sa skill issue. You're not explainingyourself. So, stop. Get a notebook out.Get a pen or just open up a blank noteand try to describe what you want to do,what you're wanting to accomplish. Thinkfirst, prompt second. And that's kind ofwhat I love about AI, which is weird formany people are using AI like a crutchand their skills are slowly starting toatrophy. But if you're really trying toget good at AI, your the way you think,the way you have to design and thinkabout systems and and and view theworld, that ability is going to increaseif you embrace this. And that's thesuperpower. That's the skill right nowto learn knowing how to describe asystem and describe a problem. And onceyou figure out that good prompt, savethat sucker. Get a prompt library.That's what the Google courserecommends. Also, my friend DanielMesler, the expert, he created Fabric,which essentially is a program just fullof amazing prompts. It's just a librarythat you can use out of the box orcreate your own. Now, the meta metaskill is to use a prompt enhancer promptto enhance your prompts for betterprompts.Did you get lost on that one? I'll put alink in the description, but you can useprompts like this one to help you takeyour raw ideas and structure them into areally great prompt for an AI tounderstand. I know a lot of people dothat. I do that. But before I do thatthough, I always make sure or I'm tryingto anyway, my ideas are clear and whatI'm describing makes sense to me. And Itry to imagine like if I were to handthis to a human and say, "Is this enoughinformation for you to do this thing?"Then I know an AI can probably do it,too. Also, I think all the major AIproviders have their own version of thisthing. I know anthropic has their ownprompt improver, whatever they call it.Now, I actually have to go because I gota thing with my family and they're goingto get mad at me if I don't hurry up.That's why my phone was blowing upearlier. So, that's the video. Go buildsomething insane. And if you have anamazing prompt that does some crazystuff, I would love to know it. Uh, letme know below or send me an email orsomething. That's it. I'll catch youguys next time.Hey, you're still here. Uh, recently atthe end of my videos, I like to pray foryou, my audience. If praying is not yourthing, that's totally cool. If you'renot sure, stick around. I want to do itreal quick and then we can go about ourday. God, I thank you for the personwatching this video. I thank you that uhthey are hungry for tech and thatthey're excited and that they arebuilding their career right now. I askthat you encourage them in that that yougive them great favor that you go beforethem and make their path straight. Umthey may be dealing right now with justa bit of maybe just strugglingstruggling to stay motivated or excitedor uh maybe dealing with fear about thefuture and what AI is doing. I pray youremove that fear, remove that anxiety,and give them the wisdom to make thebest choices, the best next steps to umadd knowledge to their care uh theirtheir their jobs and their career. Ipray you bless their careers, Lord. Thatyou would um help them to show up and begood, to be that person that isdependable, that's valuable and seen,and that they their careers wouldexplode. God, give them clarity in allthis. And I pray that the tools they'relearning in this video will be somethingthey can make concrete to change theirlives or change their their businessesor careers. Bless them, God. Bless theirfamilies. I ask this in your name,Jesus. Amen. That's it, guys. Talk toyou later.