You need to learn MCP right now. MCPmakes AI do things overpowered things.Like when I connected Claude to myObsidian vault. What? Or Brave or KaliLinux? My jaw dropped. I mean, look atthis. Claude is hacking with Kali Linuxright now. So, in this video, I'm goingto show you the magic of the modelcontext protocol. I'll break down whatit is, show you how to use it withDocker containers. It's all local, andeven how to build your very own customMCP servers for literally anything youcan think of. My goal by the end of thisvideo is to create a Kali Linux MCPserver so our LLMs can hack for us.Doesn't that sound awesome? Get yourcoffee ready. Let's go.And shout out to Docker for making thisvideo possible. So, giving LLM access toour tools makes them insanely powerfuland it's necessary if we want them to doanything productive. But to do this iskind of hard. And I hate to say this,but you have to think about LM likepeople to a point. Now, for us humans,when we want to use tools like a taskmanager or an email manager, we're notgoing to be interacting with the code,right? No, no one would use it. That'swhy we have user interfaces or guies.This nice, friendly interface abstractsaway the complicated code, making iteasier and possible for most humans touse it. Solution found. Let's just givethe LLM a guey. They'll love it. No,they won't. They hate gooies. At leastfor now. LLMs, they love text. So givingthem a gooey, it's like they can do it.It's hard. It takes forever. Okay, fine.Just give them the code. LLMs love code,right? Not going to work. They needaccess to that code and your apps arenot going to give it. But hold up. Whatabout APIs? That would be perfect,right? Application programminginterfaces were built so that oneprogram could use the tools of anotherprogram. You can't give a program aguey, but you can expose API endpointsthat allow a program to programmaticallyuse these tools in a language itunderstands. So, for example, my realtask manager, ClickUp, they expose anAPI endpoint that allows a program tocreate a task for you. And when Ipretend to be a program, watch whathappens. Boom. Task comes in. Or I canuse the Obsidian REST API, pretend to bea computer, and create a new note. Howcool is that? So, what's the point ofthis video? Problem solved. Give the LLMAPI access. Hold on. Let's say we did.First of all, this API stuff, that'scode. in order to interact with the APIendpoints. That's going to be runningsome sort of code, which the LLMs oftendon't have access to. And even if theydid, look at this API documentation. Imean, look at ClickUps. It's superintense. You'd have to code each one ofthose API interactions and instruct theLLM on how to do it. Now, don't get mewrong, people do this and it works, butit's kind of a pain, right? And there'sno standard way to do it. There's got tobe an easier way, right? Check the titleof the video. MCP came in to save theday. MCP is the model context protocol,a standardized way to give tools to LLM.It's kind of like how USBC solved ourcable issues. Created by Anthropic, itdid not take long for this to become theindustry standard. And here's why. Checkthis out. So, instead of the LLM havingto run code to interact with the APIs,we'll throw in what's called an MCPserver. This server is abstracting awayall the complexity of these API calls.Now, what does that mean? It means allthe code that you would normally have towrite to interact with the API, the MCPserver is handling that. It has thatwritten into its code. It'll do all thatfor you or for the LLM. So, all we haveto do is say, "Hey LLM, connect to thisMCP server." Slot right in. We'll say,"Hey, Mr. AI, when you want to create atask or get a task, you don't have tocode anything. Just simply ask the MCPserver to do it." The MCP server willhave these tasks or tools exposed likecreate a task and all the LLM has to dois simply ask and use that task. Itdoesn't have to know anything about APIendpoints, anything about the code,authentication, none of that. The MCPserver abstracts all that complexity andmakes it kind of stupid simple for ourAI. We essentially created a guey forour LLM. They just have to click abutton. And the most exciting part aboutthis is that this MCP thing is now thestandard. So if your AI, if your LLM hasthe ability to connect to an MCP server,which most do now, everyone's adoptingit. Then you can connect to a ton ofapplications because everyone's exposingtheir APIs via an MCP server. Enoughtalking about it. Let's have you try anMCP server right now. Quick sip ofcoffee.Let's get you connected to one. I justheated up my coffee. It's super hot.Now, I've got good news. It's actuallycrazy easy to run your own MCP serverright now locally on your computer. Letme show you. It's going to be usingDocker. Shocker. That rhymed. And youcan do this on pretty much any machineyou want. Mac, Linux, Windows. The onerequirement is that you're runningDocker Desktop. Actually, let me do awhole what you need thing real quick.I'm not sure why I did jazz hands there.That felt very weird. I can't imaginehow it felt for you. So, Docker Desktopand you'll also need an LLM app,something that can run large languagemodels and something that can use MCPservers. I'm going to demonstrate threeoptions. I'll show you cloud desktop, mypersonal favorite. It's free. This willbe using the cloud models, which arefantastic. I'll show you LM Studio forlocal models like Llama. And for all youpeople who love, I'll show you Cursor.Let's get started with our Dockerdesktop install. It's really easy. I'vegot a fresh Mac here. I'm going to goout to docs.docker.com.docker.com/destopand that's it. I'll have all the linksbelow in a guide. For me, I'll do DockerDesktop on Apple Silicon. I'm not goingto walk through Windows or Linuxinstalls, but they'll all be below. Keepin mind, Windows does involve the extrastep of getting WSL 2 or HyperV set upas a backend. We're not going to coverthat here, but there are docs in thedescription below. All right, I'll goahead and install Docker Desktop andthen launch it. We'll sign our life awayby accepting all terms. Use recommendedsettings. And now here, you can create aDocker login if you want. You don't haveto, but I recommend it. It's free. Nopressure. Now, Docker Desktop is greatat running Docker containers. Youprobably saw that coming, but maybe whatyou didn't see coming is they're greatat running MCP servers with their MCPtoolkit. This is brand new, hot off thepresses. And when I first heard aboutit, I didn't care so much. Honestly, I'mlike, so what? Then I tried it. And nowI use it every single stinking day. It'samazing. Now, to get this working, wehave to turn on a few things. The mainthing is the MCP toolkit. We'll click onthat real quick. Actually, is it alreadyinstalled and set up? Let's go makesure. Let's go to our settings. We'll goto beta features. Okay, I already hadDocker MCP toolkit enabled. Go checkthere right now to make sure you don'talready have it enabled. And that's umall we had to do. Now, let's pick an MCPserver to run. They have a wholecatalog. Look at all this. Now, theseare official MCP servers that are partof their catalog. As I mentioned, we canmake our own. I'll show you that here ina moment. But let's search for one thatwill be really fun right now. Obsidian.So, yes, there is an Obsidian MCPserver. I'll just add the sucker. Andall I have to do is paste in my ObsidianAPI key, which I can get from Obsidianhere. Now, Obsidian is a local open-source notes application, my favorite. Iuse it every day. And they have acommunity plugin called local REST APIthat I installed. We already used itearlier. I'm going to grab this API keythat it provides and paste it into thisfield here.And that's it. Getting back to myservers tab here. You can see I have anObsidian server, 12 tools available. IfI jump in there, I can see what thetools are. Click on tools and you cansee that it's describing these tools inplain language. Use Obsidian appendcontent to append content to a new orexisting file in the vault. Behind thescenes, it's doing all these API callsto the Obsidian REST API. But for you,me, and the LLM, we just know we say,"Hey, get some changes. Hey, do a simplesearch." And it does it for you. Youready to see it happen? Now, you'reabout to see some slide of hand here.Really just some magic behind thescenes. Something absolutely crazy ishappening. Something called the DockerMCP gateway. Okay, I'm not going to showyou that just yet. We'll cover more onthat later, but just know it's doingsome extra magic behind the scenes. Now,notice under MCP toolkit, we have theoption for servers, the catalog, andthen we have clients. These are the LLMsthat can interact with the Docker MCPservers. Look at that. Cloud desktop isright here. What do you say we connect?And that was it. I just did it. So, Ihave Cloud running right now. This is afree account. I don't pay for anything.I'm going to restart it. Launch itagain. And by the way, ignore this. Wewon't need this right now with our owncustom tools. Now, I'm going to click onthis setting box right here. And you'regonna see something amazing. MCP Docker.That's us. That's what we just did. If Iclick on that, it's going to show youthe tools that we just added to Claude.So, watch this. Yo, create a note in myObsidian detailing the best way to makeFrench press coffee. Let's go. Now, it'sgoing to start thinking. Then it's goingto realize, oh, I have a tool availableto me. I'm going to try and use that.Let's look behind the scenes here. Yeah,it's getting it ready now. It's going toask you permission to use that toolbecause it is accessing things outsideof its normal purview. Sure, I willallow it just this one time, though.Okay, so it said it did it. Let's gotake a look.There it is in my notes. Are youstinking kidding me? H, it works thesame way for search. I'm going to createa fun note here. Just something random.Cool. Now I'm going to ask it to search.Hey, search my vault for something aboutdrinking tea. I'll allow one time to dothe simple search.It's going to do a broader search. It'lltry a few times. It's going to read thenote or get the file contents. But see,here's what's happening here. This iswhy this is amazing. It's not having toauthenticate. Doesn't know anythingabout that. Doesn't care. Doesn't knowany code or API, anything at all. Itjust knows that it can call that tool,use that task tool, and that's it. And Igot the information. This is so powerfulfor us. Are you kidding me? Coffee breakfor that.Hey, never chat from the future here.What I'm showing you here, it's cool,but it's all local. At this time stamp,I'm going to show you the Docker MCPgateway and how we can make any tool youbuild remotely accessible from thingslike, I don't know, N8N. Dude, it's socool. I'll see you there. Back to thevideo. I seriously have goosebumps justtalking about this. And I've been usingthis for a minute now. What do you saywe go add a few more MCP servers?Because we can add a lot. We can gocrazy. Let's go to the catalog. duck.go.Sure, I want one. It's already there.Fetch. It'll grab URLs. Got it. Or it'llgrab the contents of a website given aURL. Oh, they have so many cool ones.Oh, they have Brave search. I need anAPI key. I don't feel like getting thatright now. Oo, Airbnb search. Let's dothat. Ooh, YouTube transcripts. We cando that. That's crazy. Okay, let's tryit out. Now, this time I'm going to addsome more clients. Let's add um cursor.Click connect. Done. LM Studio. Clickconnect. Done. Now, it's that easybecause I already have cursor in LMStudio installed. And behind the scenes,all it's doing is updating an MCP serverconfig file that each one of these appshas. Now, let's try LM Studio. I'm goingto restart it real quick to make sureI've got everything I need. And LMStudio again is what we can use to runlocal um LLMs. I'll load a model. We'lldo Gemma 312B. And then I think I'll godown here to my plug and see. Oh, yep.There it is. We'll connect our MCPtools. MCP Docker sitting right there.If I click that tool icon, we can seeall the tools, I think. Oh, yeah. Thereit is. Beautiful. Now, let's ask it todo something. So, I'll say, "Find thetop 10 best Japanese restaurants inDallas. Use the dot.go tool and thencreate a note in my vault with yourfindings using the Obsidian tool. Localmodel. Let's see how you do, buddy."Keep in mind, these MCP servers arerunning locally on my computer. I'llgive it permission. Go ahead, bud. Okay.But it didn't create the note in myvault. Let's try it again. Okay. Gemma'skind of dumb. Let's try DeepSeek, amodel that can think.Give her permission. Come on, buddy. Youcan do this. All right. Gave permissionto Obsidian. Okay. It found the Japaneserestaurants. Let's check Obsidian. Itdid it. Oh no.Local models are dumb. But it did thetool call, which is what we cared about.If we did that same thing in Claude, itwould move very quickly.[Music]Okay. Said I did it. Let's check it out.Oh, I did a great job. Check that out.That's so fun. Let's see if Cursor cando the same thing. I'm going to restartCursor.Grab the transcriptfor this YouTube video. Look at that.Run the tool. And this is the freeversion of Cursor, too. Oh my gosh, itgrabbed it. Now, let's add that to myObsidian Vault. It's so powerful, man.Okay, it finished. Let's go check ournote. There it is. Grabbed my YouTubevideo, summarized it, put it in ournote. Come on. Are you not excited aboutthat coffee stinking break?You know, people ask me, "Is thatenthusiasm? Is that fake? Is thatscripted?" No, it's not. Ask my wife.I'm always like this. All right, here wego. It's time for you to build your veryown MCP server. Custom, just how youwant it. Because there may not be an MCPserver out there that does what you wantit to do. So, right now, I'm going towalk you through building three MCPservers. Yeah, three. Because it's kindof easy. I did a lot of work to figureout how to make this work well. I wentthrough the pain for you. The first onewill be a fun demo, a simple dice rollerjust to kick the tires, make sure thingsare working. Then I'll show you how tobuild some real tools involving APIs.But seriously, you're going to feel likeyou can do anything after learning howto do this. The world we're living inright now is crazy. Let's get started.Now, the secret sauce behind all this isthis prompt that I built. Here it is.Network Chuck's MCP server build prompt.contained in this one prompt iseverything an AI will need to build youan MCP server. All you have to do isdescribe what you want. Let's do itright now. By the way, if you don't wantto run all this LLM stuff right now, Ido have this entire example in my GitHublink right here. Just around maybe here,we'll tell it something. Okay, I want tobuild a very simple dice roller MCPserver. I wanted to do coin flips, DNDstuff, any kind of dice roller mechanic.Bake that in, make it simple and clean.Let's copy and paste this whole thing.Pick an LLM that you know is pretty goodat coding. Your quality will vary. Iright now love Claude Opus 41. He's kindof amazing. Just going to paste this inand go. Coffee break while AI makesmagic things happen. And what this willspit out is everything you need to buildthis server. It'll walk you through itstep by step. I think I asked it to dotoo many things.It's almost done. Okay, it finallyfinished. It gave us a lot of stuff andwe're going to follow it step by step.Now, it created us five files. A Dockerfile, requirements, dice server, readin,and a cloud. MD file. You really onlyneed the first four unless you're usingclot. And all the files should be rightabove it here. So, first I'll create adirectory. Call it my dice or something.I don't know, something stupid. Jump inthere. cd my dice. And we'll create ourDocker file real quick. I'm just goingto PB paste that in there. It's aspecial thing on Mac.The Docker file will describe how tobuild a Docker container, which we'reabout to do. We'll then do therequirements file, which is almostnothing. Requirements.txtand then the server, which will be thebiggest piece of this.dice_server.py.And by the way, to create these files inthe command line, you can use nano them,I don't care. And then finally, thereadme file, which is just nice to have.Now, that's all we really need to dothis. We're going to run one commandright now. We'll follow the instructionshere. Yep, right here. Docker build.Paste that in. And it's going to build aDocker container right now. Quick coffeebreak.And what it's doing, if you're notfamiliar with this, is it's taking allthat stuff, the Docker file, whichdescribes how to build the Dockercontainer. It's going to add our Pythonserver config. And it's done. If we typein Docker image ls, we'll see our DICEMCP server right there along with ourother MCP servers that we added throughthe Docker catalog. Speaking of catalog,we need to make our own. Now, see herein the instructions, they say you canmake a catalog directory if you don'talready have one. You probably alreadyhave one. And if we type in ls do ourhome directory look in Docker the Dockerdirectory. It's hidden inside MCP andcataloges. See I already have a few herejust kind of chilling out. If you justinstall this you'll just seedockermcp.yaml.We're going to make our own right now.Your AI prompt should spit out a customYAML. We'll grab that. We'll create ourown right now in that location.Docker MCP cataloges. I'll call it mycustom catalog.Done. And there's one more thing we haveto do and it's going to tell us righthere. We need to edit the registry. Now,this is how the Docker MCP gateway isgoing to work. Docker has their built-incatalog. You can also add customcataloges like this or like this. Andthat's just a catalog. Like you shop forthe