progressed at a blistering pace, leading to the incredible text-to-video models that we see today. Of all the interesting details that make these models tick, the most astounding thing to me is that the pieces fit together at all. The fact that we can take a trained text encoder from clip or elsewhere and use its output to actually steer the diffusion process, which itself is highly complex, seems almost too good to be true. And on top of that, many of these core ideas can be built from relatively simple geometric intuitions that somehow hold in the incredibly high dimensional spaces these models operate in. The resulting models feel like a fundamentally new class of machine. To create incredibly lifelike and beautiful images and video, you no longer need a camera, you don't need to know how to draw or how to paint, or how to use animation software. All you need is language. So this, as you can no doubt tell, was a guest video. It comes from Stephen Welsh, who runs the channel WelshLabs. If somehow you watch this channel and you're not already familiar with WelshLabs, you should absolutely go and just watch everything that he's made. A while back he made this completely iconic series about imaginary numbers. He actually has since turned it into a book, and consistent with everything he makes, it's just super high quality, lots of exercises, good stuff like that. More recently he's been doing a lot of machine learning content, so cannot recommend his stuff highly enough. Now the context on why I'm doing guest videos at all is that very recently my wife and I had our first baby, which I'm very excited about. And I'm not sure what most solo YouTubers do for paternity leave, but the way I decided to go about it was to reach out to a few creators whose work I really enjoy, and who I'm quite sure you're going to enjoy, and essentially ask, hey, what do you feel about me pointing some of the Patreon funds that come towards this channel towards you during this time that I'm away, and kind of commission pieces to fill the airtime while I'm away. The pieces are actually going to be really great. I've enjoyed giving some editorial oversight as they're coming in. You know, we've got statistical mechanics, we've got machine learning, even some modern art. It's going to be a good time. The next guest video is going to be about a combination of modern art and group theory. It's actually very fun. And like all the other videos on this channel, if you're a Patreon supporter, you can get early views of these ones and provide some feedback before they go live. Until then, I hope you thoroughly enjoy binge-watching WelshLabs, and again, consider buying the things that he makes. There is just as much thought and care put into those as there is into the videos. Bye!