my builder agent this ismulti- aent orchestration dashboard areact time script frontend architecturetask folder pulsive every 60 minutes.Emits 8 minute progress reminders.Enforces single work in proper submit.How to dispatch assigned task. Strengthswell structured task life cycle and slayinformment is active not passive andconcerns and improvements. Mock data arereal data split. No optimistic updatesmutations.The project has solid foundation withgood uh we'll be improving this fromhere. I want you to deploy it into ourlocal siteserver. So when we are doing thisusually what happens is it doesn't havethe environment variables. I will ask itto check because the beauty of what wedid earlier is wewhen we use that bash commands and uhall of that we were using it toessentiallyso it said the dev server is live butthe superbase is not set up they thesethree haven't started they require validsuperbase credentials inv.server server.So I said I want those running too andyou can check the environment variablesfor superbase. They are set. The greatthing about how we use how we gaveaccess to open flaw we exported our APIkeys into environment. So they are inour machine.So meaning any tool that you work laterlike cloud code in my case cloud codehas access to them too. So credentialsare set and let me start all threeworkers and it did and now it's inlocalhost8080 and we go here and we can maybesign up. I don't remember the last loginexactly or let's sign in. No sign updatabase error saving near usercan come here. I'm unable to sign upwith a new user.So if the same thing has happened withopen law, it will take a really longtime to fix it and you won't be able tosee what's going on, what it's doingactually. And if you have any kind ofdev background, you can quickly guide orsee what the issue is. And when I wasdoing this with even flawed op 4.6 sixandcombined with open flaw. I was runninginto issues because I would say gofigure it out and it will it is notfixed and I had to ask it you know whathave you tried and it would give me thelist and then it just adds a lot ofadditional things. Let's see it saysit's working.Let's refresh the page first. Sign up.Go to sign updatabase receiving a user or did theyalready sign me invalid login credentials?So if we go toweb page oh you see how um you know itsaid it worked. It's not done yet. Inthe meantime, let me open the app in thebrowser to test uhdirectlycloud in Chrome. I don't think I gaveaccess for cloud in Chrome yet.So after it assured me there is noerror. The error is database errorsaving your userdatabaseerror saving your user.Maybe I already have the main money.That's what's happening. So if if I haveto find that out on open law, it wouldhave been so messy. Um so I will dosomething. I will go to the browser hereand say money to instead.I'll sign up.Now let's work on fixing the task boardfirst and then we get into the nextsteps building area employees one byone. So to before we fix it uh I want tochange the name of the application tosomething else. Uh let's call itlet's call what we are calling thefolder right let's call thisagent command hubI want to rename this application changethe branding uh change in sign in signuppages and uh the logoof the application as well let's call itagent command huband add a futuristic logo and um updatebranding throughout the application. Itshouldn't be called clawbody anywhere.You don't have to do this necessarily.The reason I'm doing this is my agentsalready know a clawbody application andif I add one more claw application, itwill only add to confusion. they willconfuse between the both. Now this isthe plan Claude has prepared. The app iscurrently branded cloud body with a Pemoji and we are renaming it to Asiancommand hub. Usually I would spend a bitmore time reading it. I am not doing sothis time. So it took few minutes forcompleting this. It made a plan and uhone of the things that Ifound is the environment variablesproperty API URL and web hook secret.Right now my other agent will run intoissues if I keep the same thing becauseit already knows my originalapplication API URL and web hook secret.So it said I don't want to change thesebecause it might break existingfunctionality. So I'm asking you toI'm asking this code to make I want youto make change the environment variablenames to Asian command API URL and Asiancommandbug secreteven if it breaks functionality we willmake the agents and we will updatewe will addwe will make agents update theintegration guide with new environmentvariables.So I will be adding this becauseI don't want any confusion between theapplications for you personally. You canskip this part. But this next step isimportant.I want you to update the integrationguide on how agentscancreate the tasks, update the task, movethe task using APIand alsotheenvironment variablesagent command API URL and agent commandweb hook secret should be displayed.read in the settings section and in theintegration section as well. So we cancopy and paste and set these envirableenvironment variables with our AIagents.This is important. We are asking cloudcode to create two things. The firstthing is the integration guide. Thisguide will serve asif you just copy that markdown file andgive it to any agent. any agent can comein pull tasks and it can create tasks.It can you know do everything but to dothat it needs an API key and it alsoneeds the web hook secret and the webhook URL. So having these two things inaddition to integration guide is how weare making the tools that we arebuildingbeing you know open in we need both theintegration guide the web hook URL andweb hook secret all these three combinedis how we are making these AI agentsable to use the apps that we arebuilding so I haven't logged into thisnew account that it's created Asiancommand hub now it looks different andtask board is we already have the taskand it is updating integration guide aswe speak and now we have environmentvariables we have the registry and wehave living docs I don't think livingdogs makes any sense yet API endpointswe have all of this. So we needsomethingAsian quick start guide and we have theJavaScript. So this is important. If anyof these are missing for your build, youneed to be more thorough where you ask Ineed to create API endpoints. This ismissing. This is missing. So when we ranthe prompt, you might be wondering, man,why how would my agent if it's not Opus4.6 get this? I already have a promptfor this. Right? If you go to the canbanboard, I gave you two prompts. I'm notasking your agent or you to guessanything. This is the best p practice.uh have a task assigning name, priorityvalues and actions AI actions also Imade the entire thing and the low andthe UI prompt whichever tool that youare using is also here. So this is likethe v1 we will have task managementassigne subtask and agent decoration andthat is how my agent was able to buildthis from what's already there. It didnot invent anything new here. So if Ilook at here this is the agent commandAPI URL right? I will copy this or Ithink I can just copy the whole thing.The what why I want to copy this? I needto set thisin the environment variables the waywe've been doing earlier. and Asiancommand web hook secret and uhifwe need to also generate a web hooksecret for me and add it in theintegration guide not the guide but inthe windowand the integration page.So the reason I wanted toum add these two I think Claud hasalready added these two intouh env.server and local environment butI don't want to risk it because I mightnot and um it gave me a web hook secretI will copy it. Keep yours safe becauseif you expose it, anyone can basicallycreate it. Okay, web secret. I need todelete this.Okay. And we have this and I will copythis code and go to my terminal and runthat. So essentially we are doing a lotof things here. We are restarting thegateway. We are setting the environmentvariables. We are loading them. And uhset length superbase access token length44. So I will Okay. Why is it asking?Okay. Superbase access token. Icompletely forgot that we need to checkthese two and I was checking somethingthat's old. So if I check one of these,it should be able to I can be sure thatthe other one worked. So if we go hereand uh length 62 perfect. So I willsince my gateway restarted which itshould have uh I'm not here right. Iwill say hey now you have agent commandweb hook URL and uh agent commandweb hook secret set in the asenvironment variables can you check andlet me know if you have access to themnow it will it should be able to pick itup I don't have to write the exact wordswe have a bunchOkay. Minimal no JavaScript. Okay.I will ask cloud code to create mea oneclickcopy. Add the add a oneclick copy buttonfor all the integration guide. So let'sgo to command center and uh or open flawto see ifI check HSNshell profilelook deepermaybe look harder I don't know I've beensaying this if you have missed it if Iif it was editedopen claw misses things you have to saylook harder or it's there check intoshell profiles found and uh next time Iwould say it's in shell profilescommand web book not found in commonshell profile situation is secret thisopen session has not inherited currentenvironmentstill looks on potential profile searchprojectfor files for URL So if Ido that, try and find it. If not, let meknow. So as long as it's not messing upwith the config, I'm okay with uh itsearching. And if it doesn't find it, Iwillknow and I will share it again.So I went back to integration guide andI copied the entire guide and come backto open flaw and when I paste it I wantto make sure okay it's also giving umthe web hook secret and uh the API key.Okay, it says access is still not found.It's okay. In the interest of time, I'mjust doing this and umfor you, you should follow the method Iwas showing you. Okay? Don't save theseto memory directly. Save this asenvironment variables. And also youshould bepulling the tasks on agent commandum every 1 minute. And uh when a task isassigned to you, you work on it and letme know on Telegram. Got it? So nowuh I'm asking you to save as environvariable. So don't load up you know showup on chat each time. Open flaw has atendency to show oh use this web hookURL use this secret to check. Okay,these two layersand then a one minute poll that watchesAsian command hub and then alerts whenreassign task appears. Chrome prawn. Sothe one minute poll might be too muchand um we already discussed this is notan AI task. AI is only woken up if it'sif there is something that if there is atask we are doing empty HTTP calls forthis thing is this in two layers perfectlet's try whether this worked go toagent command and go to task board Iwill delete this task or maybe we havethe same task delete task a new taskbuild a futuristic to-do app.Okay. And uh urgent column to-dodate today and SI raycreate taskbecause we have this one minute thing.Uh let's see if it can pick it up. Ijust realized array was not assignedearlier.We did not click save. Right now Iassigned it properlyandgo see open low main sessionto see if um it started any changesbut I would give it a good 1 minute. Thething is it is prompted tomessage me if it picks up. So when it'sstarting build and it's done for atleast user assigned tasks for each agentassigned task it will only message mewhen the task is done not when it'spicking it up. So it the task moved todoing and I did not do that. Um, so theymust have but it's not showing anyeithera message on Telegram oranymessage here. So it's completely silent,but it picked it up. At least I think itdid. So it's not really moving. So uhI'm askingare you not polling every 1 minute fromAsian command hub? There is a task thathasn't moved. I wasn't notified oranything. What is the reason? Checkingthe live path now. Whether the crownfired, crown completedand why task didn't trigger. So thepoint here right now when you're testingthis for the first time is basically seewhy it went wrong probably working withthis latest technologyany tool that you take cloud code openflaw or any agent for that matter therewill be breakage there will be issuesbut knowing why the issue happened willsave you from not repeating the samethere. So if you look at I'm shakinglife path now the crown fired what brokeone minute crown job was firing butevery run was being skipped startskipped after disabled so polar existedbut the main session chron executionpath never really fire Asian command hadcurrently returns 404 not found.Okay, theconfirmI will give the same thing what broke tomy cloud code agent.I know we are playing telephone fromthis agent to that agentbut this is one of the best methods Iknow for now. That's why to mitigatethis, I createdAsian coms.So to mitigate the exact same thing, Icreated something called Asian comswhere agents can communicate with eachother andtell each other what's going on. So wecan build something like that once thebuilder agent and orchestrator agent uhneeds to communicate consistently butfor now just focus on making this workbecause this is more of a temporarything than a permanent thing. So whilewe fix the issue I've been getting alertafter alert on telegram. So I would sayI want you to pause the polling till Itell you.So I updateda new superbase because my cloud code isconfigured with a different account andit has a hard timedoing these changes and I had to go tothe free account and make a bunch ofchanges whichis not worth the time. So you can followalong exactly how you were doing andyour integration guide must have workedearlier. So for me I asked for changeandplot said it made the changes and if yougo to integration guide I see if youremember previously was N it starts withN but now it'sdifferent. So I copy this and go back toopen floor and say yeah we are lookingat the wrong um so project this is thenew integration guide please updateaccordingly.So I added this new guide and I want togo to my table see if uh we do havetasksneeds input I need to make it to doand uh save changesand come back to open floor and ask itto start pollingenablecommand pingand add skewedwhen the message is alreadywhen open flow is already working on it,it would usually be ceued. Um, so onceit's done updating endpoint everywhereit should live unless you want to enableanything.Okay,reenabling it but newb 10.So I did that reenabling it but okaylet's take the same thing too. So I willcopy this and uhI was hoping it would besaved in uh in the integration guidethat explains it. Okay.N function secrets. I'll have to go to adifferent browser because this browserdon't have access to that. I did thattry now. Okay, I said try now and itsays right nowit doesn't matter. 200. Okay, perfect.Why is it though?We had a task for rain.Maybe it know to do that's whyagent save changesor it looked for tasks that areafter the change doesn't make any sense.Let's see. Are you checking the task isautomatically being moved from todo todoing.This is really unusual. So let's checkwhat's going on. want to make sure wehave stableand it's empty.So that's a front end issue not the backend.So need to go to cloud code.I feel like the front end is stilldisplaying the world uh super basease.Let's update the task board to canbanboard to link it to the new web newsuperase.So that is the issue. The board uses allby shared superbase client pointing toone project. It is now being updated tonew project. That was quicker than Iexpected. and um new project. Now let'ssee it when we go back it should beempty.It is empty. Okay. Create a futuristicto-do app.And we have high we have columnto-doand due date. Maybe let's do tomorrow.Ray andfor some reason I still feel like it'snotup to date. I did not create my accountunless it migrated the whole thing. Theauthentication is not on. So I see abunch of issues that can be wrong andstill so to check we'll see the taskssubtasks. Oh, it may be display name andtasks boot. If I go to authentication,no users in the project. And yeah, thatiswhat is weird about this. How is itgetting all thehumans? Okay, let's go to table editortask assigneesray subtask boot columnswhere is it stop sharinghow come we have the name bra and thereis no user IDso while we are here I will create anaccount I'll go hereuh we had humans and agents featureRight now we don't even have tables andalso I don't think I created a accountin this new superaseapparently I cannot log out so go toheader turn on authenticationum disableemail confirm sign up and also add a logout button in the header with theprofile. So, a bunch of issues to fix.You don't have to worry about it becausewe already did that in previoussessions.While this is happening, I can create anaccount for myself. Add a user. Create anew user.I can do one with what we are doing withlocal host. I don't have to update it.Um, it's auto confoundedall systems task board. It should beempty. Oh, yeah. It's a shade thingnow. I think the it is hardcoded withthe assignees. Click add. Nothing ishappening because maybe we don't haveanyone. Yeah. Log out button and uh itis already creatingtable since both clients going to sameproject. Simplify the board client.Now everything is on the same project.Let me just reexport main client. Now Ilog out button in the header. Now let mecheck if done.Now for disabling can't do that. But letme find ways with my okay no worries inyourhumantables createdauto creates a human now. So this isexactly what we did previously.Now point in project restart the testserver to pick up.It's already picked up. Um but I want tosee what AIS that we have ongo to table editor and uh go to agents.Nothing is present here.