files. And that actuallytakes me to a great point. Um, you canlook at files in the editor panel, butyou'd almost never actually manuallyedit them. My rule of thumb is if I'mmanually editing a file, I am doingsomething horrifically wrong becausethere's no real reason why I should bemanually editing a file. I justcommunicate with my agent and then itdoes it for me. Even if I want to changea specific file, I won't go into thatfile. I'll just say hey change specificfile to do this and then typically I'lljust give it a oneline description ofwhat I want it to do and it'll gothrough and it'll do it in the mostefficient way. In this way I'm almostlike the CEO of my own company. I mean Iam the CEO of my own company but I amlike the CEO of my own agent company. Ijust give very highle instructions andthen it's the agent that interpretsthose highle instructions and doesthings. So that's two out of the threesections. The third is the agent chatpanel that exists all the way on theright. So the agent chat panel ishopefully very familiar to you guys.Same sort of thing as just any chat overthe last four or five years. In thiscase, I just said, "Hey, what's up?" Itthen read through agents.mmd. As I toldyou, it always reads through this at thevery beginning of every run. And then itsays, "Hey, not much. Just ready tohelp. What are you working on?" So, thisis your primary interface. This isreally where you're going to live. Anduh it's such a primary interface thatthe modern idees like anti-gravity andstuff have basically done away witheverything else except for this. And youjust talk to this all day. So, you'lltype your instructions here. Agent willrespond. You can even see the thinkingtab over here with the reasoningprocesses is deciding what actions totake. That's really cool forinterpretability reasons. And it's alsojust one of my favorite things to watchbecause you're seeing the AI's internalmonologue. It's also good and and usefulwhen you're building aic workflows,which obviously we're going to cover uhquite shortly so that you could stop itif it makes some mistake. Um you couldsee where maybe an error is, do yourdebugging and so on and so forth.Finally, just an obligatory section oncode. I know code is really intimidatingfor a lot of people. I want you to knowthat all scripts are is they're justtext written in a hyperspecific way.This over here is what's called Python.Do I know what's going on over here? Imean, yeah. I've done some coding inPython, so I can look at this. I cankind of interpret it, but I I I can't doso very quickly, and I don't know what'sgoing on for the most part. You don'tactually need to have any clue what'sgoing on in the code these days in orderto do really powerful, effective thingswith them because, as I mentionedearlier, AI is just a way better coderthan you. So, if you find yourselfopening coding scripts and stuff, you'reprobably doing something wrong. I neveractually have a page open like thisbecause it just means no difference tome. Now, if you do find yourself openingthis for whatever reason, I want you toknow that a Python script or whateverlanguage you're using, Python's just oneof the many. It's just a set ofinstructions for the computer to follow.It's the same sort of thing as like thethe the bullet points that I was showingyou guys at the beginning of the coursewhere I was describing an instantly autoreply bot. This is just a set ofinstructions written in a way that thiscomputer understands, but it's literallyjust text sitting in a file. It doesn'tdo anything on its own. What you have todo in order to turn this into some sortof function, turn this into some sort ofexecution script, is you have to run it.And that just means telling the computerto run the instructions. And typicallythe way you do this is you do thisthrough the terminal yourself. You'dfind the file, you'd see it's calledPython script. py. Then you'd actuallygo into the terminal and veryintimidatingly, you know, if you evenscript one character, it's not going towork. You actually have to type all thatyourself. Well, guess what? you nolonger have to do that. The agent justdoes all the coding for you and then italso runs the code for you. That's whatmakes it such a powerful um orchestratorand that's why I live entirely in theeditor. Agents just run all the code. Ijust say, "Hey, run my Upwork scraper."Do I have to know the format to toexecute it? No, I don't. What I do is Ijust say, "Do the thing I want." It'llthen do some thinking. It'll find thespecific file that I'm referencing andthen it'll go and it'll run it. And sonow this is actually running. It handlesthe entire execution loop autonomously.That's the whole point of agenticworkflows. So don't worry about beinghyper precise. If you spend too muchtime being hyper precise, you're kind ofwasting it because models, as Imentioned, are just millions of timesfaster than us. They think justextraordinarily quickly. This is reallyjust the domain of the model.Communicate with it almost like you'd becommunicating with an employee or staffmember. Obviously, you wouldn't say,"Hey, Pete, run the Upwork scraper. Giveme the results. Uh, post it to Slack andthen give me the Google sheet URL. Hey,could you send Sandy an email about X,Y, and Z? Use the email template. Justspeak to it like you'd speak with anemployee. Don't speak with it like you'dspeak with a programmer, and you'regoing to do a lot better. When you dothis, your IDE becomes essentially avisual chatbot where you can just watchthe agent work 24/7. And that's wherethings get really cool and reallypowerful. So, back in the day when wedidn't have agents, we had to create alot of this stuff manually. What I haveopen here on the right is the terminal.And the terminal is essentially thecommand line interface way that youwould communicate with your computer inorder to get valuable knowledge workdone. Usually programming work. And sobefore you know I couldn't just say heywrite me a script that does XYZ. Why? Itwould say command not found. This onlyworks in the context of specificcommands. You know instead I would haveto use Python 3 for instance. I'dactually have to open it up and then I'dhave to, I don't know, create afunction. So, let's just do x= 5, y =10, um, x + y equals what? 15. As I'msure you guys could tell, this is prettylaborious. And obviously, this is like ahighly specialized domain of knowledgethat you have to learn in order to beable to communicate with things in thisway. Well, if I clear all that out ofthe way, with our previous example, wehad um a list, right? That list lookedkind of like this. It was a big list anditems with water filter, compass watch,matches, so on and so forth. So back inthe day, if I wanted to build a scriptto do this, I needed a tremendous amountof domain specific knowledge to be ableto put together scripts like this. Whatthis does here is this. This actuallysorts the list. It's Python 3 C importJSON, D equals JSON.load, openitem.json, D items equals sort keyequals lambda. I mean, this is like thisis a whole another language you have tolearn. You know, it's like me trying towrite an essay in Portuguese orsomething. You know, the amount of timeand energy it would take for me to beable to know just how to do this onething would be immense. And you know, Ican do it and then my list gets nice andsorted. But the amount of work that Ihad to do in order to get that done istremendous. Contrast that with ouragent. All I'm going to say is write mea simple function to sort this filealphabetically, then execute it. It'sgoing to do some thinking to begin. Sofirst it's going to read the file thenit's going to see the structure and it'sgoing to write the script and thenexecute it basically immediately. Theamount of time that it previously wouldhave taken me somebody with no knowledgehow to do this probably is on the ordersof like a day at least just to be ableto write that script let alone all otherones and this thing can now do it in youknow just a few moments. You offload thecoding to the model have it actually puttogether these deterministic scriptswhich are a lot more reliable and thenwhat you do is you just sort of sit backand orchestrate. Okay, so IDEs, as Imentioned, were kind of like codeeditors, right? And they've been aroundfor quite a while, at least 15 years.They weren't designed with AI agents inmind, but the new breed of IDs just giveagents access to everything. They haveyour editor access, they have terminalaccess, they even have browser access.Now, so there are three main options Iwant to talk about today. Each of themhave different trade-offs, and yourchoice depends on how much flexibilityversus simplicity you want.The first is anti-gravity. I'm actuallygoing to be opening this in a moment andthen running through this in a lot moredetail. But basically, this is Google'sbrand new agentic development platformlaunched super recently and it's very,very good. It's designed primarily fortheir Gemini class of models, but itsupports other providers as well. It'sthe cleanest and simplest interface inthe bunch, has by far the lowestlearning curve, and it looks somethinglike this. On the lefth hand side, ithas the file explorer. On the right handside, you have your agent. And you'llnotice in the middle, it's actuallyempty. And there's the ability to openup agent managers, code with the agentor edit the code inline. For the mostpart, this thing is really simplifiedand it knows that you don't really givea crap about what the files look like.Obviously, if you open a file, it'llopen up in the middle, but for the mostpart, it abstracts away all that for youand you just communicate with the modeland it does what you want it to do. Nextis VS Code. That stands for VisualStudio Code. This is a lot older of aplatform. It's actually the platformthat all other platforms are kind ofbased on nowadays. It was built byMicrosoft. It's their free co-et codeeditor and it's very, very popular. Thebig draw to Visual Studio Code is itsextensibility. You can't really see thisthat well, but over on the right there'sthis little extensions tab. And VS Codejust has like a massive supportedlibrary of all the different extensionsyou could want. These extensions arepretty cool. Now, for the most partnowadays, we just use like the CloudCode extension, GitHub Copilot, right?These like AI model extensions that addAI functionality into your code. Butthere are some cool things that you canbuild in with extensions that just allowyou to use whatever the heck you wantwith it. So, I see this as less of likea specific AI editor and more as justlike a really general editor that a lotof people are used to. They just importextensions to turn their editor into,you know, a hyperoptimized AI one. I'mgoing to be showing you this one aswell, just because it's very popular.Finally, I want to chat a little bitabout Kurser. Kurser is actually one ofthe first like AI editors on the market,like an an editor that was builtspecifically for AI in mind. I don'treally like using Kurser these daysmyself. Um, obviously it's baked indirectly to every part of the platform.But for the most part, I just findanti-gravity is better in every way,shape, and form. Um, very similarinterface to what you guys are used to.So, there's a file explorer, there's aneditor, and so on and so forth. The fileexplorer, which you can't actually seein this screenshot, is usually just onthe left hand side. Then in the middlehere, you have like the big code editor,and then on the right hand side, youhave both a chat and a composer. Samesort of vibe to anti-gravity. Aside fromthat, it just has access to everything.I'm not going to cover this one justbecause while it's somewhat popular,it's not as popular as the other twooptions and I want to be mindful ofeverybody's time. Okay, so let's startwith anti-gravity. Prettystraightforward stuff. On the lefth handside, we have that file explorer, whichI talked about to you guys earlier. Inthe middle, we have obviously theeditor, which is where you can openspecific files and then change things.And on the right hand side, you have theagent window, which is where you cantalk with agents. So, just to be clear,I sent this agent a message saying,"Hey, what's up?" And then it tells me,"Hey, I'm ready to help. I see you'vebeen working on a variety of workflowsrecently from YouTube transcriptanalysis and panda dooc proposals tolead scraping. What would you like totackle today? To cover the middlesection here as I talked about earlieruh markdown.md is the file format thatwe put a lot of instructions in. Andyou'll notice that we have a blue sortof headers over here you know orangetext over here and then the rest of itis uh is white. And so what I've openedup is I've opened up a simple directivecalled the Upwork scrape apply systemwhich just scrapes Upwork jobs matchingAI automation keywords, generatespersonalized cover letters and proposalsand outputs to a Google sheet with aone-click apply link. The whole ideabehind the system, and I'm going to showyou how to build ones just like this ina moment, is you can automate theprocess for the most part of applying toan Upwork job. Upwork being a freelanceplatform. This sort of stuff is going tovery quickly become an integral part ofmost people's workflows. So as you cansee here, we define some inputs. So, wegive it some tools. We give it a filter.You may be thinking like, good lord,Nick, did you write all this? No, ofcourse not. I had AI, write all of thisfor me based off some simple bulletpoints. It's very meta. You use AI tocome up with the instructions foranother AI model. Um, in a way, in thatway, you are literally just some personthat is giving some minor instructions.You're acting more as like the motivatorthan anything else. Okay, I remember Italked about on the left hand side howthere'd be a couple of different foldershere, directives and then executions.I'm just going to open up directives andshow you guys around a little bit. So,as you can see here, I have a bunch ofthese different flows set up. One ofthem was Upwork, scrape, apply, butthere's, I don't know, another 15 or so.Create proposal MD, cross nicheoutliers, deep research, pitch, and soon and so forth. Let's say I'm in thebuilding process of an agentic workflow.What I'm going to do is I'm going to askthis to help me out. Hey, is thereanything that I could do to the createproposal directive to improve it?Suggest some alternative approaches.Going to enter that in. And now themodel is going to come up with some waysthat we can make things better. It'sgoing to do so with the directivestructure. Um we injected a prompt intoits uh agents MD, claude MD, Gemini MD,multiple different ways to initializesystem prompts, but it has all thecontext about what I mean. And this ishow Gemini's UX works. You know, analyzeand improve, create proposal directive.Gives me the reasoning loop over here,progress updates, it gives me a bigplan, and then I get someinterpretability, some access to itsthoughts. At the end of it, we end upwith, "Hey, you should add a human inthe loop review step. Hey, you shouldtry a web enrichment option. Hey, youshould handle variable token counts.Hey, you should do robust JSON handling.Hey, you should do a dynamic follow-upemail." That's pretty cool. I like theidea of number two. Number two soundsgreat. Why don't we give that a try? AllI'm doing is asking it for its opinion.I went through. I didn't like four outof the five, but I did like the second.So, now I'm just going to have thismodel go to the directive and thenupdate it to include a web enrichmentstep. It's then built me a plan thatlooks pretty straightforward and easy.I'm then going to okay this. What Ireally like about Gemini is it justshows you sort of like the trackedchanges really easy. And you can seehere that it's now provided anadditional step called research client.Understand the client's brand voice andcurrent context. So on and so forth. Ifa website URL is provided or can beinferred from the email domain, then usethis thing to fetch the client's landingpage. Analyze all this information andoutput a brief summary. So I like this.I'm going to accept it. And then I'mgoing to say, "Yeah, sounds great. Let'sgive this a try.As part of this specific workflow, um, Ihave the model ask me a bunch ofquestions about the client. To bereally, really straightforward here, I'mactually just going to open up chat GBTand then going to take a screenshot ofthis. I'll feed this in and I say, I'dlike you to give me a bunch of exampledata here. I'm feeding this into a modelfor a demo, for a YouTube video.I'm then going to have Chat GPTconstruct a big list of demoinformation, and then I'm going to feedthat in in a second.Okay, as you guys can see here, I have abunch of data sets here. Um, they fed mein 10. I'm just going to use one, usethis information for the demo.Cool. And now I'm sort of orchestratingmultiple AI models. I am certainly usingchatbt as a copy paste sort of thing,but I just wanted to show you guys thatlike this is data that is in a way real.It's data that is supplied outside ofthe system that I'm feeding into thisworkflow. I'm not having um Geminiitself within its own context come upwith it. I'm giving it a bunch ofinformation outside of things. Okay. Andat the end of it, I actually have afully functional proposal over here forbright path learning with an AI poweredstudent success predictor. How cool isthat? We have all of the problemstatements, the solution statements.It's really clean. It's pretty nicely uhwell done. Uh even includes someinformation here about pricing and so onand so forth. So, these are actualproposals that I sent to actual clients.As you guys see, we just generated abunch of demo information for ahypothetical demo client that actuallymeaningfully altered a workflow insomething like 30 seconds of actualwork. Everything else is me just waitingfor the model. Okay, so that wasanti-gravity. Now, I just want to showyou