node. So inthis case, what happens was a chatmessage was received. The data waspassed on to the AI agent and the AIagent is zipping into the simple memoryto check what my name is or theinformation that was given earlier andthen using the open AI chat model toreturn the information.Now that the chat model and the simplememory has been set, the third thingthat we want to attach the AI agent toor provide the AI agent with is theemail tool. So now there are varioustools that you can attach. But in thiscase, because we want the AI agent to bean email agent, we want to attach theGmail note.when you're attaching a Gmail note, youneed to set up your Gmail credentials tobe associated to the account. I alreadyhave my Gmail account set up here.But if you haven't set up your Gmailaccount before, it is pretty easy. Theway you would do it is to create a newcredential. And if you're using ancloud, you would sign in with Google asan ooth to recommended way.or if you're using a self-postingmethod, you might want to choose aservice account and fill in thenecessary information that's required toset up the Gmail account properly.Now, as you can see, there are a couplefields to configure here.The first one is tool description. We'regoing to leave this as set automaticallybecause we're going to let the AI modeldetermine whether they want to use Gmailor not.The second field is a resource. In thiscase, we want to do message because wewant to be able to send message throughthe Gmail tool. And the operation ofcourse is send. And so you can see thereare other options as well. So when weattach a Gmail tool oftent times itdoesn't mean that we just want to sendan email. It can also do many otheroperations such as reply a specific typeof email or mark an email as read orunread or delete an email or many otheroptions. Now going into the informationof the email itself, there are a coupleof information that we need to pass tothe AI agent for it to determine what todo with the email. So first of coursewho is the recipient of the email. Nowbecause this is going to changedepending on your input. Now rememberbecause your input is going to be innatural language whether that's Englishor any other languages this is going tobe different every time. So what youwant to do in that case is to let themodel define what the email address is.That way whatever your input is, themodel is going to infer the informationand try to extract the necessaryinformation that you think is correctfor the email addressand the subject itself is also going tobe determined by the model. We're goingto let it do that and we can do that byclicking the same blue button here tolet it determine the subject.When it comes to email type, in thiscase, we want to choose a text emailjust for simplicity. HTML is very goodwhen it comes to imagerich type ofemail. So, if you're looking to attachany image or any thumbnail and you wantit to be aesthetically formatted withinthe email, then you would choose HTML.But in this case, we're going to goahead with text.And then on message, we want to choosedetermine by model as well because thatway we're going to let the AI determinewhat kind of body of the message that isgoing to attach.Okay. So now the three elements havebeen configured.We want to go back to the AI agent nodeto specify certain prompts. But beforewe do that, there are a couple of thingsthat I think it's worth highlighting. Asyou probably have noticed, with everysingle field that comes within aparticular node, there is a fix andexpression toggle here. Now, I just wantto highlight the difference between fixand expression. So, because the AI agentnode is connected to the chat triggernode, we've left this as connected tochat trigger node. But what you can dois actually to define what the input is.So, when we click on define below, wespecify exactly what kind of input thatgoes into the prompt or user messageprompt.So in this case I can drag and drop thechat input and it will fill it up as anexpression.Now the difference between fix andexpression a fixed format is basically anatural language format with which youcan tell the AI agent a specific butpermanent definition of what the usermessage is. So for example, if I were toput the user message as please send anemail, this is going to be the input forevery single run that I execute of thisworkflow. And that's not ideal becausewe want the AI agent to be able to getthe information dynamically depending onmy input. So in the first run, I mightput what is my name instead of pleasesend an email. So we want the prompt orthe user message to change together withmy prompt. So how do we do that? That'swhen we toggle into expression. And whathappens is we can now drag the chatinput variable in this case and simplydrop them into the prompt user message.And what happens is as you can see itcreates an expression in this case aJavaScript expression of the variablesof the chat input. Meanwhile the actualvalue of the variable is dictated herewhich is what is my name question mark.So, as you can seeon each separate run of the workflow,it's going to populate the informationbased on my input instead of a prefixinput if I were to choose a fixedformat. I hope that explains thedifference between fix and expression.Well, and in this case, the next thing Iwant to do is to go to options and underadd option,I'll go to the dropdown and click onsystem message.Now for those of you who are not surethe difference between a system messageand a user message, the user message isa set of instructions or input thatcomes directly from the user.Meanwhile, the system message describesthe core function of this particularmodel. So in this case, what I want totell it is that you are a helpful emailassistant which helps craft effectiveand succinct email based on usersinstruction. You also help with sendingthe email by using attach email toolwhen asked. Now this is a very simplesystem prompt and I would suggest thatfor a more effective system promp thatyou go to chatgpt or llm of your choiceto prompt engineer an effective systemprompt for a particular AI agent. That'swhat I would do in a productionscenario. But in this case, becausewe're just running a quick demo, we'regoing to stick with a simple one just sothat you understand the principle behindit. Cool. Now that we have the systemprompt defined as well as the user promvariable in place, we can now take itfor a spin. Now in this case, what Iwant I want to do is to say the samething, which is hello, my name is Mark.And as you can see, it's accessing boththe open AI chat model and a simplememory to store the information, butit's not necessarily using the Gmailtool. And the reason for that is becauseI did not specifically ask the agent tosend any email just yet. So as you cansee from the response, hello again Mark,what would you like to do today? Is theresponse which is also the same responsehere. Now I would say I would like tosendan emailto my bossatmaronei@codecloud.comwhich is not my real boss's emailaddress is actually my email addressbecause I don't want to necessarily sendmy boss a test email aboutthe upcoming marketing meetingon26th of August2025.So, I'll hit that.As you can see, it's not necessarilyusing the Gmail tool straight awaybecause it is intelligent enough to knowthat it needs a little bit moreinformation. So, it says, "Sure, whatwould you like the subject and themessage of the email to be?" So in thiscase, because I'm too lazy to come upwith the subject and email, please,please come up with it yourself. Okay.So I'm going to say thatand it gives you a draft of the email.So in this case, it says subjectupcoming marketing meeting on August 26,2025. Dear boss's name, I hope thismessage finds you well. I wanted toremind you about the upcoming marketingmeeting scheduled for the 26th of August2025. Let me just blow this up. We willbe discussing our strategies and plansfor the upcoming quarter. Please let meknow if there are any specific topicsyou would like to address during themeeting. Looking forward to your input,Mark. And I would like to make changesbecause it says, as you've noticed, myboss's name. So, let's saymy boss's name is Moonshot.Okay, so now it registers thatand gives me a new draft. Dear Moonshot,I hope this message finds you well aboutthe upcoming marketing meeting. Da dada.And then it says, shall I go ahead andsend this email tomoonshotaronecloud.com?Again, this is not his email. This is myemail because I don't actually want thisto be the email that sent to him. So Iwould say yes, please go ahead and sendit.So once I've confirmed that, whathappens is, as you can see, the AI agentis now accessing the Gmail tool to sendthe email to actually in this case myown email. So let's take a look what itlooks like in my inbox.Now this is the email that's been sentto me. As you can see, because the Gmailaccount over hereis connected to my email or my Gmail,which is marone@codecloud.com,it is essentially sending frommarone@codpow.comto me. That is this in the content ofcourse. Dear Moonshot, I hope thismessage finds you well. Wanted to remindyou of the upcoming marketing meetingschedule for 26th of August 2025.So, everything looks nice. I can almostsend this directly to Moonshot. But whatI want to do is as you can see at theend of it, it says this email was sentautomatically by NAND. So that's notideal because Moonshot will find outthat I'm actually automating this email.So what I want to do is go back to theNAND workflow and go to the Gmail tooland scroll down to options. Under addoptions, I'm going to click on thedropownand click on append edit andattribution.And what I want to do now is to togglethis off. In this case, it will actuallystop attaching the message of the endattribution in the email.So in this case, what you can do whenyou want to execute a step is to hit theplay button on top of the note so thatyou don't have to rerun the entireworkflow. So let's just click on that.Okay. So now that that's done, I want totake a minute to explain some of thelittle functions here that you see andwhat they do.The first one is the play button whichis the execute step button. So thisbutton is super useful when you want torun the node without essentially runningthe entire workflow again. So if youchange anything within the AI agent nodeand you only want to run the AI agentnode again, you would hit this button.It will only run the node here.The power button as you can see here isto deactivate the node because this isthe only node basically that does anyprocessing in this workflow. But as yourworkflow grows more complex, you mighthave five or six branches of nodes. Andsome of them, if they're not in use, youmight want to deactivate. So if youclick on deactivate, what happens isit's going to say that the node has beendeactivated. And basically, the workflowis not going to work for any processesthat go through this particular node.And we're going to reactivate thatagain. And of course, the bin icon is todelete the entire node together.Now another very useful function inwithin any is a pin. Now if you were toopen up the node and go to the top righthand corner you can see that there's anoption to pin the data. Now this issuper useful because now you don't haveto key in or populate this particularnode with new data all the time.And this is extremely valuable whenyou're running a workflow that uses APItokens or might cost you for every runof the workflow.So to avoid running the workflow againand again and using or activating theAPI token, what you can do instead is topin the data to the node so that everysingle demo run or every single trialrun is using the data that's alreadybeen populated.So once I pin this data, every singlerun of the chat input is only going tosay yes until I push it to production.Now once you've done all this, thisdoesn't mean that your workflow has beenpushed to production. So the way youwould push to production is to togglethe activate workflow option right atthe top here.And when you do that, it's going to giveyou a warning message to say you can nowmake calls to your production chat URL.Okay. So click on got it. And there yougo. Your workflow is now in production.You do not have to click on executeworkflow to run the workflow. And everysingle message that it received is goingto run the way you set up the workflow.So just to try that out, I'm going touse hello.I'm going to have to pick on pin andsend.And there you go.It's a new response. Now, of course,this workflow isn't very useful becausethe only way you can interact with theAI agent is through the terminal here.Now, how can we provide a publiclyavailable terminal so that more than oneusers or people who don't have access toyour end to end workflow can also usethis AI agent? Well, if you open up yourchat note, what you can see is thatthere is a make chat publicly availableoption. And what you want to do is justto toggle that. In this case, it's goingto give you a URLthat you can copy and open up.And you might have to wait for a coupleseconds for it to stand up, but once youdo, this is a page that is publiclyavailable as long as you pick the optionto make the chat publicly availableand you can access the AI agentas any user would. Cool. And as you cansee, there are a couple options herethat you can configure if you want toinclude an authentication or if you wantto have an initial message that iscrafted or customized to your needs.But in this case, we're going to keep itsimple because in this section, we justwant to run through the principles ofhow to create your first AI agentworkflow on NN. And I hope that has beenhelpful. And just before we go, youmight notice that there are threeoptions to choose from from here, whichis the editor version where we have beenactually building the NDN workflow onwhich obviously as the name suggestswhere you edit all the nodes andconfigure all the nodes in the workflow,but also the executions buttonwhere you can check out the logs of theexecutions.As you can see, it gives you the date,the time, and the type of execution. Theone with the beaker icons are testexecutions or basically the workflowruns that we did when it was in demomode. And once I push it to production,it is an actual execution to theworkflow in production.And one of the things you can do onceyour workflow is in production is alsoto copy the data that's been populatedduring the execution for troubleshootingpurposes. So if you click on copy toeditorwhat happens is your editor will nowshow the information that is derivedduring the execution of that productionworkflow.So remember in the chat we said helloand here it is the chat input content ishelloand similarly the AI agent response ishello how can I assist you today whichis the response that we got from thelive chat.Now, this is a very useful optionbecause it just makes yourtroubleshooting as well as youriteration a lot easieras you build or modify workflow inproduction.So, I hope you were able to followthrough on the demo of how to build yourfirst AI agent workflow on Edn. In thenext section, we're going to give you alab where you build the exact same AIagent within that particular lab and seefor yourself if you're able to create anAI agent that crafts email and sends iton your behalf. This course comes withfree labs that could be accessed rightin your browser. So, you don't need toset anything up yourselves or use yourcredit cards. The labs are challengebased, meaning we give you a challengeand ask you to solve it. Use the link inthe description below to sign up forfree labs on codecloud. I'll now walkyou through your first lab. In theupcoming labs, you're going toexperience hands-on building AI agentson NAD environments. And in doing so,you're going to need an API access tothe LLMs of your choice. And in order todo that, you need the API keys. Andthere are a couple ways to get your APIkeys. Naturally, you can go to OpenAI toget your OpenAI API keys or platformslike Open Routers on which you canobtain API keys of several differentmodels. But those platforms requirepayment information before you're ableto get the API keys even if you're justtrying out. So, one of the things thatwe've done here at CodeCloud is we'vecreated the CodeCloud code key. And whatit is, it is the all-in-one AIplayground where you can get the APIkeys to the following LLMs of yourchoice. And at the time of thisrecording, models like GPT40, GPT4.1,cross on 4, Gemini 2.5, and Grog 3 areavailable through the code keyplaygrounds. And the code key playgroundis available on various differentsubscription plans, but you get the mostaccess with AI plans and the businessplan. Now, if you were to go to thispage, which iscodecloud.com/ai-playground/codekey with the right access, you can hitlaunch now and click on start playgroundand you'll be led to a dashboard whereyou can essentially create and grab yourAPI keys by selecting the models as wellas the different types of ways ormethods with which you can access theLLM model. Now, in this case, I'm goingto do an example of how to call a GPT4.1 model through a code key on your NDNenvironment. So, there are two ways todo that. The most straightforward way isto go to your end workflow. I'm going tostart the trigger node with a chattrigger because I want to be able tocommunicate with the agent and I'm goingto just populate the node with somethinglike hello. And we're going to introducea second node which is the OpenAI node.In this case, we're going to choose amessage and model node. And what we wantto do here is to create a newcredential. And we call this code keydemo for example.And what you want to do under the baseURL, replace this base URL with the baseURL that