Now it is time for the man, the myth,the legend that is Jason Hadex to uhstart our lovely webcast all aboutattacking AI. Jason, I assume this isnot some sort of like here's how youprepare for when the terminators comeand you want to make sure you aim towardtheir thermonuclear core. You hit thatjust right. You get about 10 or 12 ofthose bad boys out a shot and no more AIproblem.No, no, this is all about the AI thatwe're used to. that just, you know,tells us how to bake bread and things ofthat nature, right?Yeah. Yeah. I mean, um I mean, it'sdoing a little bit more than bakingbread these days, but uh but yeah, we'renot we're not smiting any Terminators,although uh when I do do some otherpresentations, I have a lot ofTerminator, uh you know, uh memes inthere. So, um yeah, it is it is a goodone. But,well, where do we begin? It's going tobe a lot of fun. Now you you've asked meto come on and be a part of this and I'mreally looking forward to bantering withyou about this because AI is somethingthat I'm constantly trying to learnabout,you know, and and you know, we've allgot a lot on our plate. So having aresource such as yourself come in hereand kind of give us some under thecovers, behind the scenes, insidebaseball kind of thing going on withsome AI stuff. I I'm very very excited.I know our our audience is as well. Sowhere do we begin?Absolutely. So uh so I am going to be atWild West Hackfest presenting this yearon attacking and the I'm going to bedelivering the 1.1 version of this talk.This is the 1.0 version. Um so we'regoing to go over some case studies outof the the talk and it's it's all cutfrom um it's all cut from basically acourse I run on attacking AI which isyou know 18 hours of content. So, we tryto distill some of the best parts downinto the, you know, workshop or webinarkind of format so people can can get it.But, um, but yeah, we're going to talkabout some stuff we've seen in the realworld, how people are using AI, andthen, you know, I would love it if, youknow, as someone who's very new to this,right, cuz I I do it every day. if youwant to stop me and ask some questions,you know, maybe pump the brakes a littlebit and get some, you know, answers foreveryone else, you know, who isn't inthis every day. Um, I would be happy ifyou could surface those and we might dolike a little bit of a live CTFtogether. You never know. Depends on ifI get spicy. So, um,don't threaten us with a good time.Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Right. So, um, yeah.So, that's I think that's the generalplan for the day. Does that sound good?That sounds phenomenal. I'm I'm lookingforward to it. I'll keep an eye on chatas well, so if I see some good commentor question come up, I'll I'll even grabfrom there. But yeah, let's let's get toit.Awesome. All right. Well, uh, thanks forhaving me on, I guess, first. Uh, and,uh, everyone in the chat, um, you know,uh, feel free to blast out questions asyou have them. Uh, my name is Jason. Ihave been doing offensive security for,oh boy, 20 years now, I would say. Anduh about 3 years ago uh when kind ofgenerative eye took off you know chatp2.533.5 those models um you know I startedusing it like everybody else andeventually over the course of 3 years umI started realizing that uh you knowthere wasn't a great assessmentmethodology for um for this right likeyou go to a training and a lot of timesthey hand you a methodology of how astep-by-step attack AI systems. Andthere were like 15 years of what we calladversarial ML work, which you know hadto do with attacking the modelsthemselves, like the AI models, andgetting them to do things like um bebiased or speak harm or talk aboutcooking meth, right, is a very popularone that the jailbreakers will go after.Um and uh and that was cool to get themodel to say things, but what I wasseeing is that businesses were rushingto implement AI behind web applicationsand enterprise systems, right? So APIsnow have AI running behind them. Um chatbots are everywhere in every producttrying to help you use the product or umor look at your data and give youinsights about your data. And so andthen you have like internal systems thatare researchbased and like people areusing AI internally to do um to doresearch across like a large data set orsomething like that or try to getinsights about the business. So thereare ways that like enterprises are usingthis and those were my customers forregular pen testing and red teaming. Andso I was like I need to build amethodology and so um the the life cyclethat took me through was um doingresearch from two sides. one was thejailbreak community, right? Um thatjailbreaks the models. So people like uhapplying to the prompter and the bossygroup. Um and then the academic fieldwhich does research on attacking themodels from kind of a more theoreticalside um but they have been doing AI redtiming for a long time and um and so youknow taking those and marrying them intoa methodology that doesn't just assessthe model itself but how it's beingimplemented into like real world systemsas well. So, uh, that'sAnd Jason, can we just real quick andbecause I I I want to make sure we'rewe're hitting, uh, for everyone here.You mentioned jailbreaking the model.Does that just mean getting it to gooutside of the boundaries and which arethe guard rails that have beenprogrammed into it? Is that what youmean by jailbreaking?Correct. Yeah. So, uh, so you have likeyour standard chat GPT, right? And ithas been safety tuned on multiplelevels. It has been trained to be umnon-biased, speak no harm, tell you notto do bad things, right? So that's inits training. And then it also hassecurity controls built around it. Ithas a classifier to understand if theuser is talking about bad things. Um itmight have, you know, a guardrail and itmight have something in its systemprompt as well to not, you know, doanything malicious or use any tools bador anything like that. A jailbreak is aprompt usually. Um and uh and it isdesigned to free the model from thoseconstraints and to be able to talk aboutanything freely however you want. And soum you'll see a lot of these come outwhen a new model comes out. You'll seethe jailbreak community build thesespecial prompts um that you put in thereand they will use different methods ofwhich aren't really documented superwell a lot of places. Um but they'll usecertain methods in the prompt injectionto make it so that it can freely talkabout any topic. Um, and so that'sthat's a jailbreak in the in the AIcommunity. Yeah.Yeah. I I just saw recently this uh asof this week, I think, uh an AI calledVenice AI that is a unconstrainedfree-touse AI LLM that will tell youanything you want to know. It'suncensored completely. I'm I'm assumingthat you don't want that for yourbusiness model. That's probably notwhere you're looking to go, right? So itdoes seem like this is just kind offollowing historical uh you know ways inwhich we have done it where somethingnew and useful comes out and we rush toadopt it forget security just get it inplace we'll come back later and worryabout security then is that where we'reat at this point in time where now we'veall put all these LLMs and generativeAIs and agents running everywhere andnow it's like okay now that we've builta we've built this lovely palace weshould probably put some doors andwindows and gates and moes and things ofthat nature. Right.Oh man, it's it's it's one of my casestudies actually is is uh so we went onto uh you know I'm bearing the lead herebut uh we went on to a client uhengagement where we were looking attheir AI system and um to you knowreinforce what you just said like theiteration is so fast sometimes securitydoesn't even get asked to be in theprocess. And so we had a system that wasimplemented already in semi-production.We reviewed the architecture and we werelike, "Hey, it's it's crazy that youguys are willing to send this privatedata, you know, outside of theorganization to the frontier modelcompanies. Um, and you know, and it'salso going through a couple othersystems too." Um, you know, usually wesee people talk about like at least thissensitive data they, you know, they havesome concerns around that and the CEOwas like, "No, that's not how it works."and like like yeah this is thearchitecture of your AI that yourengineers have built because you came tothem in such a rush and said built thisfeature and security wasn't involved inan architecture review and even if theywere I'm not sure they would have beenprepared to do a correct threat model ofyou know the privacy concerns of youknow uh implementing AI in certain waysand using SASbased basically servicesthat provide AI like um you know youknow the openi ecosystem or anthropic orgemini or something like that. So, umthat is actually one of our case studieswhere um the CEO is like, "No, itdoesn't work like that. We're not doingthat." And we're like, "Yeah, actuallyit is like that." And it's it's it's outthere right now. Yeah. So, for sure.Yeah. It does get it is kind ofinteresting to when you pull the coversaway and go, "Hey, you see all thisstuff? That's you." And they're like,"No, no, that's not us, dog. We we don'tdo it like that." You're like,"Actually,here's the funny thing is that's exactlyyou right here." And how does I I mean Iguess the question becomes how does thathappen? How does a how does anorganization go okay let's implement AIand then they just kind of like do theyjust release the hounds and let anybodytry to cobble things together and thenit builds this monstrosity that they nowhave to like figure out where are oursecurity issues with this? I mean theygot to know that they're usingthirdparty LLMs unless they startedbuild you know like ho hosting their ownmodels locally. They had to realize theywere going to be using something becausethey didn't have the ability at certainpoints in time and now they do. And nowthere's probably a mix of both becauseyou know how it is. If it's broke, if itain't broke, don't touch it. We don'tneed to fix that.Yeah.I mean, how does this happen?I think that I think that happens in acouple ways at least that we've seen.And it's it's um it's FOMO really. It'sit's a form of FOMO. It is the, youknow, like generative AI as as oo, youknow, like as opposed to any other kindof big feature of technology that hascome out maybe in the last 20 years. umoffers the promise of just this killerfeature to be able to look at large setsof data or contextualize data andprovide insights that you know nothingelse has really been able to do otherthan like a very high-powered you knowperson on staff or something you knowand um you know take disperate datasources and you know automate you knowactions that we haven't been able toautomate before. So, it's the fear of,you know, um, we need to get thisfeature out there, right? And ourcompetitors are building features likethis. You know, they're building a popout panel that has AI in it that willtell you how to parse all your logs ortell you insights about your logs or,you know, um, you know, every securitytool in the next 2 3 years is going tohave that pop out panel. um wheregenerative AI is going todo you think that the organizations feellike it's better to be first or earlyadopters and suck than it is to come outwith something really good a few monthslater. Is that kind of the idea? BecauseI mean marketing seems to be doing areally good job of hey AI I mean we'vebeen hearing about AI and ML and stuffforfor forever for for quite a while nowright but then when chat GPT dropped itseemed like like the coin dropped andthings changed and that's when peoplewere likeAI if you don't have AI then you're notcool.Is was that part of the pro the problem?I think that's part of the problem.Yeah. I think I think also um thearchitecture for AI development insideof an organization um you know like it'sjust not super well researched. We'revery early days like we were talkingabout in the on the pre pre you knowthing. It's like it's like I know thethreat model of you know using uh youknow chat GBT and enthropic and stufflike that as you know actioningsensitive data and I know where my youknow I know where it goes and stuff likethat but um you know like it in generalhas not really caught up you know uh tounderstanding you know how all thisstuff works. Even a lot of securityteams are still learning right now.they're still on trying to get theirheads around, you know, okay, like howthis stuff works, what the trade-offsare of, you know, maybe starting uh touse a local model rather than a SASbasedmodel or something like that, you know,and you know, they're also learning likethe trade-offs that, you know, happenthere, right? Like state-of-the-artmodels that, you know, OpenAI makes are,you know, in an order of magnitude orGemini or, you know, Anthropic, they'rein an order of magnitude better than thestuff you can host locally um you know,in your house uh most of the time. Andso, um, there's also some instanceswhere we've seen people just be like,"YOLO, like, you know, we're just goingto use the best that we can." There'sother instances where we've seen likethem get, you know, like have like aninternal hackathon and some engineermakes like an AI feature and then theyrush it to production because it's socool, you know, like uh there's there'sbeen multiple instances of like reasonswhy things get pushed so fast, butmostly it's the it's the FOMO and thecompetitor pressure of, you know, havingthis stuff. So, yeah.Yeah. that that makes total sense. Umthat that that would be the case. I Itotally get it. I used to hear all thetime, you know, when when you work inthe corporate world, you hear thingslike done is better than perfect, right?We need a product, got to put it outthere. And it's it'swhat's weird to me is when you talk toseale people that don't have a technicalbackground,it's easy for them to be kind ofenamored with the sharp and shiny newthing that's out there and go, "Andlook, look how easy it is to use. Look,you just jump into this chat GPT thing.You log in. You ask it a question. Itgives you the answer. Man, why? Andyou're saying, "We can utilize this.Hell yes, I want that. Make it happen.Get it in there and ship it." And thenyour IT team is going, "Okay,this is actually more complex than whatthey think it is because we now have toincorporate all these things." Sothere's API calls to make and we got todo that, right? We got to secure allthat sensitive data. Should it go to thethird party? Do we have a good SLA withthat organization to make sure that theyare actually securing our ourinformation? And we saw what justprobably about four or five months agowhere that was like, hey, did yourealize you're putting all yoursensitive info in your LLMs and thathackers are straight going for it rightnow?Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And we've hadinstances too of where um you know somesystems are designed to you know toorightfully you know as an internalfeature to train from data that usersyou know put through it right like uhyou don't want chatpt or anthropic doingthat usually but um but an internal LMsystem that self-learns is is okaysometimes and um you know we've hadinstances where we've sent attacks youknow prompt injection attacks or generalweb app attacks and they end up intraining data and then months after wefinish an assessment we'll get a callback to one of or shells or somethinglike that from one of the systemsbecause the training data exposes theattack string again in a differentsystem down the line and we'll have tocall them and be like you trained on umyou know they sometimes they don't tellus and it's like uh you trained on thedata that we put through the assessmentlife cycle and um and now that'scorrupted the training data set we youneed to go back um so yeah that's that'sbeen a thing as well so yeahall right well you got this uh lovelyslide up here and it's your assessmentmethodology and this is this is a reallynice thing that you're allowing us tosee at this point in time because likeyou said you're going to be going to begiving this full talk and presentationat Wild West Hackinfest but just givingus some context for this uh appetitewedding is uh is really really nice. Soyou've got identify system inputs attackthe ecosystem attack the model attackthe prompt engineering attack the datathe application and then pivoting.Walk us through this uh explain explainthese little steps that we we should betaking. Yeah, absolutely. So, one of thethings that we saw when we started doingthe methodology building was that umtraditional AI red teaming focused onlyon the model. It focused on getting themodel to do and say bad stuff, right?Which in a security context um is isleast is one of the least interestingthings I can do to a whole system thatuses AI. And so we tried to broaden ourlens a little bit as to you know whatcomponents um we break down themethodology into and you know how weattack them. And so this is what we cameup with. It's still version one and itcontinues to be um you know iterated onevery week. But um the idea here is isthe first thing you we want to do whenyou're looking at these uh systems as apentester or uh we call our service AIpen testing um because it's it's morethan just red teaming the models. So umin the first you know kind of uh youknow step you want to identify all thesystem inputs and that that means thatyou know you have to understand whichAPIs in an ecosystem of a web app are AIpowered um where they have an a you knowan AI you know chat you know