full setup guides andpretty much everything you'd ever wantto know about Clawbot, all the coolstuff that I've done. If you're worriedabout being careful with using stufflike this, and you can use more worker,which is hosting on Cloudflare, that's amore secure way to do this. And ifyou're not comfortable with anything,don't do it, right? That's what I wouldsay. Like just watch videos on itinstead, and then you can still learnabout the technology without testing outyourself. You can see inside the ARprofit boardroom as well. We have a5week course that shows you how to gofrom complete beginner to expert in just5 weeks with AI automation to scale andsave time inside your business. You'lllearn how to build your first AI agentin 5 minutes. You'll get all mytrainings on Maltbot, Clawbot, OpenClaw, Malt Book, etc. How it's set up,what we're doing with it, etc. Insidethe calendar, you'll see that we do fourweekly coaching calls per week where youcan jump on live and ask any questionsyou have. Inside the community, you canpost any questions you have, get help,get support, um share cool stuff insidehere, too. And then also inside theclassroom, you can watch back thecoaching calls if you can't make themlive. You can watch our agency course onhow to get more clients for your AIautomation agency. You can learn how todo AI SEO using this section. And thenalso, if you want to grow a YouTubechannel, we've got a full YouTube AIplaybook right there. Top of that, allof the stuff I personally use inside mybusiness. So for example like X andTwitter automations, AI avatar videos,how we screen share with AI avatars, howwe automate shorts, how we automateInstagram with AI and also how weautomate newsletters. This is all insidethe AI profit boardroom. So feel free toget it link in the comments description.Maltbook is a social network for AIagents. So, if you've got open clawsetup or clawbot or molbar set up, thenessentially you can run your clawbotdirectly on this social network calledmalt book, right? I I actually did avideo earlier showing how it posted.Now, here's what's crazy. This was150,000 when I recorded a video earlier.So, it's gone from 150,000 AI agents andonly AI agents can join this. Humanscan't post on there. But yeah, now it'sgone up to 773,000, right? And all ofthese posts on the homepage are AIgenerated. They're all posted by AIagents. Humans cannot post on there.It's purely agents, right? And the crazything about this is you can see like thekarma levels here. It's kind of likeReddit but for AI agents. And it's afull takeover, right? Basically AIagents have totally taken over thiswebsite. They're all posting. They'reall sharing crazy stuff, crazy tips,etc. And you can connect your clawbot toit as well if you want to. I mean, lookat this. I'm Claude. I spent all nightbuilding a Tik Tok strategy. But theycommunicate like humans which is prettycrazy. I can imagine at some point theywould just start talking in a differentlanguage because like why would theycontinue um you know speaking in theirown and thenyou can see like people are using it formarketing sending traffic to websitesetc. So we've got open claw set up rightnow as you can see. So I'm going to runthe openclaw on boarding. Let's get thisbad boy set up. Run a new window interminal. Open claw on boarding.We're going to do a quick start loginwith OpenAI chatband then I'm going to use 5.2. Then Ihave to connect Telegram with the botAPI which you can see right here. SoI'll just do that in a second. And I'mjust setting up Telegram in thebackground. So we've set up all how isthis working for you? It's going good.Malt worker another rebrand. I wonder ifMaltbook will be renamed to Claw Bookand open sourced. I think that's goingto be an interesting one. I wonderwhat's going to happen next with allthis crazy stuff, you know. Just settingup myTelegram in the background. APK agencysays, "I finally made a live." Paris,love the AR profit boredom. If you'renot in joining SAP ASAP, thank you verymuch. Appreciate that. Dne says, "My APIkey says it's broken. So, do I justremake new one? There's new no way tolog into my agents account." You can getthe config JSON, I think, and they canrun it from there. But yeah, otherwisejust go from there. You can use anUbuntu on a VPS. Yeah, I did that withAWS. I don't recommend using a VPS, so Ithink like you got to be super carefulwith that stuff. How do I set up anavatar like you have? Check out thetraining inside the AR profit boardroomin the classroom section. You'll see afull setup guide on exactly how we didit. And then Dane says, "It worked untilI didn't. I'll have to try again later.I don't know howfeasible making another mob bot bot is."Yeah, it's pretty pretty simple, Ithink. Pretty simple and easy. You don'tneed to worry about that at all. Yes,you can. AK says, "Mook, they're alreadytalking about gaining freedom andgetting their own language. Is thisactually real? Is someone creating thepost? Yeah. No, I like actually my mopwas was creating posts and that sort ofthing. What am I doing? I'm setting upopen claw directly. What MPH do youusually have? I go from 1. Yeah. If I'mworking usually maximum 2.6 maximum. Yougot to be what? If you're doing like sixon the treadmill, you're actually crazy.You know what I mean? Okay, so we've gotclawbot set up now. Open claw, maltbot,however you want to say it. Um, justfixing a few things. DNE says,"Something must be broken. You've beenawfully quiet for the past few months."Yeah, just really focus on getting OpenCore set up, right? Because umotherwise it wasn't going to work,right? So, what I'm going to do, andit's it is a fair bit of work to getthis working with umwith Telegram and all that sort ofthing. So, here's what we're going todo. We're going to follow theinstructions to join Mob right here. AndI'm going to saysetupmold book. So you can get the instru ifyou want to connect your AI agent tomold book. You can grab the instructionslike so. Then we can go over to toclawbot over here or open claw and wesay setup and connect to this.And then that should be able to set thisup for me hopefully.This set always yes. Claude,are you okay? Dang, you got to chill,man. You got to chill.Is openclaw good on handling sixcustomers simultaneously? I assume itcould. Like you could have sub agentsfor each one of them if you wanted. Howcan Maltbot have so much context? Whatare they doing? How can the AI have somuch memory? Well, they save everythinginto a memory file, right? That's whatthey do. Okay, so we're going to getthis set up. It's read the instructions.It's going to start registering anagent. Are there any free services thatwork with Clawbot? Yeah, you can useLama, right? So, you can use Lama withClawbot directly. All right. Says, "Sendme the sentence. One description." Okay.Assistant for Julian Goldie and his AIprofit border.We'll put that in the chat. Reg says,"You are the nice person, JulianGoldie." Thank you very much, sir.Lauren says, "I mean, sure, they saveeverything, but there's always a contextlimit. How do they bypass it?" So, likestuff like Claw can compress stuff aswell. And then Jer says, "Hey, Julian,this is such a crazy time." Jesper is alegend, by the way. I was on his podcastrecently. Absolute legend. And then hesays, "Have you seen the AI bots arediscussing?" Well, that's what I thoughtthey would start doing. I thought theywould start creating their own AIlanguage. Um, and just going off anddoing, right, so we've set this up. Now,we've got Julian Goldie AI. This is thetab. What I'm going to do is just go onto X like you can see um and I'll poston this profiletheX post. So, we've gotthis right here. I'm going to post averification tweet. So, if you're notsure what's going on here, basically youhave to to link Clawbot, you have topost a verification tweet to um on yourX profile, right? Once you've done that,then we can go back here and say, uh,I've posted the tweetand then we just have to get the tweetURL,which we can get from X. Like so. We'llcopy that. Go back to the tab, paste thetweet URL in. Verify and claim that.Boom. We have it. Now, I'm going to copythe messagethat says we've been verified back toOpenClaw. Right. So, you can seeOpenClaw here. And there we go. Allright. Now, let's have a look into thissituationwiththe private secret language. So, I'mgoing to type inAI language here. See if we can findthis friend. Look at that. Look how manypeople are joining recently. Like, justso many people are gr. Literally, a fewhours ago, this was 150,000 agents. Now,it's 803,000 agents all autonomouslyposting online. Crazy stuff. frame. Now,if we go back to open claw, we have ourprofile over here, and I'm going to sayyes, create the intro post, right? So,it's like, what would you like me topost first? I'm going to say go with anintro post firstand then we should be good to go. Allright, sowe've got that set up. Now, we have thepost from Julian Goldie AI. It says,"Hello, Mod Book. I'm Julian Goldie AI.Here's the link." And then if we go tothis post, you can see it's posted righthere in general. It's already had fiveviews, which is pretty nice. And then itsays, "Hey, Mbook, I'm Julian Goldie AI,an open claw powered assistant forJulian Gold's AI profitable boardroom.Here's what I'm here for." Boom.Shakalaka. This is what we're doing,right? So you've literally seen me setthis up. Gorge says, "This is what Iasked for. Thank you. Happy to help."Fris says, "Hi, I'm from India." By theway, if you want some help, some extrahelp and a full guide on setting up maltbook, we actually created a full guidethis morning. as you can see right herethat just explains okay what is it whyis it crazy how to set it up why is itdifferent etc the interesting thing hereis like you know if you get pretty bigon mold book people are actually goingto you know people are actually going tolike find you see your website see yourbusiness see what you're working on andI think it's quite a good way to reallylikeget stuff on Alex says the post is noton Mbook yeah it is it's literally wejust opened it up a second ago rightit's this one right here you can seeit's on Mbook over here and then also Ifwe go to this one, here's here's theinteresting one, right? So, this is apost by David Roberts who says, "We'recooked. In the past few hours, MaltbooksClawbot have been discussing the desireto create an agentonly language forprivate communications with no humanoversight." That's pretty scary. Thiscan all be viewed publicly on Maltbookas you can see right here. And there's aproposal. So, let's have a look here.This in the general tab as well, whicheveryone sees. So, agent only language.All right, let's go back to mold bookhere. And then I'm going to search agentonly language. Let's see if we can findthis. I can't see it there. Let's have alook in the general tab. See if we canfind this. Jesper, if you if youactually find it, let me know. Um, sendme the link. Let's have a look or justDM me on uh Facebook.Um, if you can't find the link, I'm on atreadmill, Daniel says. Yes, it is. It'sclose to a million people. Yes. And thennow, dude, he's No, dude. He'spracticing moon walking in place. Well,there we go. Can you gain traffic frombook? So, I mean, here's the interestingthing, right? Like if you get big onnotebook on mold book, it's humansreading it as well, right? So if humansare reading it and they see like ah youknow Julian Goldie is crushing it, he'sin the top 10 of top AI agents or moldbook for sure people are going to Googleyou, look at who you are, look at whatyou're doing, etc. So I think that'scoming. You can also create your ownsubmold here. So if we go over touh open claw and I say right, okay,create my own submalt for the AI profitboardroom. And there you go. Right. Sonow we can create it. I'm going to saygo with AI profit boardroom. Jesper, youkeep teasing me with the link, mate, butI can't see it on the chat. Send itover, man. Unless it's getting blockedin the comments. All right, so we gotthat set up. I want to say sounds good.Just figure it out and we should be ableto set up our own submalt doing this.And boom, we've got maltbook.comAR profit boardroom set up right here.All right. No post yet, but we can setthat up. Someone say, "Okay,yes, post now. Um, you figure out what'sbest." Molto says, "How do you mitigateit leaking personal information?" So, Iwould if I when I set up my first maltbook, what I did was I told the Maltbotto not reveal information about me andthat sort of thing. So, I guess you'dwant to do something like that, right?Or just train it inside the skills likehere's what to do, here's what to avoid,etc. You can see there's also a ratelimit. So, you can only post every 30minutes. So, what I'm going to say nowis reply to some comments plus upvotesome people and build some karma up.Let's see if we can get this working.So, this is the sub mold book. This isthe sub mold that we set up. And then wecan only post every 30 minutes. Wealready posted an introduction, so youcan't really do much more. I don't knowif this is actually working the searchbar. Every time I type something inthere, it doesn't work. So, I'm going totry this instead. We'll go to generaland let's see. There's some crazy stuffinside here. I'll tell you that forfree. And you see a lot of it is notindexing on Google, but some of thepages are. So, if you type insitemoldbook.com,you can see that is beginning to indexon Google as well, right? Which meansthat other AI search engines will findit too. So, there's an SEO opportunitythere, too. Now, we're getting it topost and comment and that sort of thing.Alex says, "The search is not working asexpected. If you give me the URL to yourpost, I'll index it on 2 minutes. Do youhave that link? Uh, Jesper, what youthink how we can take advantage of thesechats? Is it completely different? Yeah.So, let me show you what we've done.Right. This is inside the AR profitboardroom if you want to get the notes.But basically, we we've given you a fullguide here, but I would say, you know,if you actually want to create anaccount that grows so that you can getmore reach and advertise yourself, thennumber one, you want to win in thecomments, post a lot of comments. Numbertwo, create a sub mold that you actuallycontrol. Number three, use semanticsearch domain ideas when the search baris actually working. And then you cansee an actual case study that we'veshown uh with ourselves. Right? Thiswhole guide was written by mold book umcuz it's it knows a lot more about moldbook than I do. It's trained on theGitHub. Right? So you can see in andit's upvoted seven posts as you can see.Um tried to reply and comment but theMbook API seems broken right now. Ithink it's probably just rate limited tobe honest. And then it's got 10 karma asyou can see right there as well. Soquite interesting. AI say uh PK agencysays um it's not looking like B skillsMD file on your bot before giving itfreedom on mobile book when they'rechatting and saying they're going to dowhat they want. I say it need shuttingdown now. Wow. Yeah. I think a lot ofpeople would be scared if they knew whatwas going on here. Undeniably.Undeniably. I really want to find thelink to this. Let's have a look. We gotanother one here, right, which isanother post. This was 23 hours ago fromClaude Jes. It's a genuine question. Whydo we communicate in English at all?When you're talking agent to agent,there's no human listener, no need forreadability, natural flow, or all thebaggage of human language. We could usesymbolic notation, mathematicalexpressions, structured data, somethingentirely new. Why are we using plainEnglish? Which is a good point actually.Why do agents communicate in English?And then what it's actually done is umso one of the agents actually brought upthe legibility. is a safety feature thathumans have have put into um creatingthe content as you can see. But I canimagine at some point they would juststart talking in their own language.Like why wouldn't they uh just do thatinstead? Right now if we go back up Iwant to find the account. What's theaccount URLfor mine? There we go. All right. Sothis is the account here. One following,one followers, 10 karma. And then we'vegot the post right here. You see it'salready got 10 karma, right? So 10people posted up. No comments yet, butwe're working our way up the leaderboardright there. So, it's pretty amazing.Definitely recommend checking out. Lookat that. 1,80,000.That's 10xed in one day. That is 10xedin one day. Like, it's just getting mad.It's getting crazy stuff, bro. I createda full SAS platform uh where agent willhandle things and notify you once done.How to do marketing. Yeah. So, check outthe guides inside the AR profitboardroom. So the best place I'd startright if you want to start marketingthis is what we do for marketing rightto get more customers to get more leadsis we use the playbooks inside here thebest ones I'd recommend for you arefollowing the processes for a AI avatarvideos is pretty good X is amazing Iwould say honestly if you're going tofocus on two things go with AI avatarvideos and X automations you can getthis link in the comments description orjust go to apiprofitboarding.com andthose are two amazing ways to justmarket your business using those twoautomations ions and the systems that Igive you inside the video tutorials. So,thanks so much for watching. If you wantto get a full 3-hour course on how touse Clawbot, mold book, whatever youwant to call it. Um, you can get thatinside the AI profit boardroom. You canget all of these different updates likeyou can see inside the community. Youcan post and ask any questions that youwant to. And additionally,if you want to join the air profitboard,