theprompt a little bit, but cool. Um, so,so it's working quite well now.Responding as myself, even though Idon't normally sound like that. Um, Idon't necessarily work intimately withall the cloud stuff, but I'm just goingto go back to the workflow here. And Iwant to try to make the agent a bit moreuseful and give it more context uh thanit currently is. And this is where I'mgoing to try to introduce a prettysimple rack system. And in this case,I'm just going to add a tool and this isjust going to be a Google doc toolbecause the reason why I'm doing that isI realized that people are going tostart asking me about projects etc.So what I did was I created a documentwhich is a Google doc document andessentially this is completelyfictitious but it outlines kind of theupdate of the project progress in termsof some of the stuff that we're tryingto do and this is again completely fakebut it's just a document so that we cansee how it all works. All right cool Ihave this Google doc drafted out. Thisis where I put all the fictitiousupdates. So I'm going to connect thathere and under the Google doc node whatI want to do is is a get operationand I'm going to go back and just copylink which is a URL link of the cloudproject statusand I'm going to paste that URL here.All right. So I'm not going to doanything with this node. This is just anattach tool. I'm going to go back to theAI agent and under system prompt I'mjust going to add a tool description.Use the Google doc tool when asked aboutproject updates.Cool. All right. So, I'm going to justmake that change. I'm going to save thatand I'm just going to click on executestep here and go back. Ask Michael.I'm gonna askhowis the is your project going.As you can see, it is kicking it to theair agent. It is thinking it is goinginto the document checking the latestupdate of the project before kicking itback into Slack. So, let's see what itresponds to me.So, there it goes. says quick as yourproject I made objective interactive labdesign done 65% complete ETA 15thOctober 2025 now let's see if that'scorrectso this says that the lab is 65%complete and expected completion 15thOctober 205 so it's successfullyfetching the relevant information intothe message however as you canSo, it's giving me the rightinformation, but as you can see, it'smissing a little bit of a human touch.So, that's probably something I can workinto the assistant prompt for it torespond more like me and more humanlike.But at rarely, this gives you a goodunderstanding on how you could leverageAI agent. Maybe not to impersonateyourself just yet, but in a lot of otheruse cases. As you can see, once you'vecreated a rag agent like this, thiscould function as your technical supportor just a bot FAQ.And this could work for HR, legal,marketing, whatever the case may be, oreven customer support. But there you go.This section is to really justfamiliarize yourself with the selectpermission logic and how you canpotentially leverage that to its fullextent.Again, this is just for fun, and we'renot recommending you to replace your dayjob with an actual AI agent just yet.See you in the next one. In thissection, we're going to walk you throughhow to set up the Slack API and connectit to your NAN. And then we're alsogoing to go through the variousdifferent permission levels as well asthe logic in terms of integrating Slackinto your NAND workflow. If you'realready familiar with how Slack APIworks, feel free to skip this sectionand go to the next one. So, first whereyou want to head to is the Slack APIpage, which is api.slack.com.And once you've signed in, you want togo to your app section and hit createnew app. And what you're going to do iscome up with an app name. In this case,I'm going to call it the end devilbot.And pick your workspace and hit createapp. Now, what you want to do in yourbot configuration page is first headover to permission. So, there are acouple things to keep in mind here interms of the architecture of the bot.So, first we need to configure thepermission level that we want to grantthe bot on Slack. In this case, we wantto scroll down to the permission scopeand we're going to hit add an O scope.In this case, a couple of basicpermissions that I want to start offwith. So the first being the obviouswhich is the app mentions read. So thisis going to let the bot read anymessages that you've sent to the botdirectly by pinging it. And the secondone that we want to add will be the chatwrite which allows it to send messagesas any demo bar. And just to make surethat it could read our messages onchannel we want to add channels read andgroup read as well. Lastly we want tomake sure that they could actually seethe name of the people that are sendingthe messages. So we're going to add theuser profile read as well as users read.So that should be enough for now. And sowe're going to go ahead and install thebot to our Slack workspace, which iscalled the Slack automation lab. Andwe're going to click allow. And again,you need to be an administrator of yourSlack account to be able to do this. Asyou can see now, we've got a bot user Otoken generated. So we're going to hitcopy on this because we're going to usethis to create a Slack credential backin our NN workflow. So going back to ourN& sheet, the first trigger node that wewant to introduce here is the selecttrigger node. And I want to make surethat we pick from the selection of thetrigger nodes and not the action node.In this case, we're going to hit theonbot app mention. And I already have aSlack vential preset up here, but I'mjust going to recreate another one justso that I can show you how it's done.So, we're going to name this Slack andthen demo code cloud. And I'm going topaste the key here and hit on save. Asyou can see, the green bar shows up.Connection tested successfully. So, I'mgoing to go back to the API page here.And right now I'm going to go to theevent subscription because I want tomake sure that's listening to the eventsthat I've specified. I'm going to togglethis to on. And for the request URL is aURL that I'm going to grab from my endnworkflow. So I'm going to hit the webhook URLs here. As you can see, thereare two URLs provided. The first one isthe test URL and then we've got theproduction URL. The production URL isthe URL that you're going to use whenyou toggle into production. But rightnow, because we're doing it on staging,we're just going to take the test URL,copy it to our clipboard, and go back tothe API page and paste the URL. And asyou can see, when you do that, it'sgoing to say that your URL didn'trespond with the value of the challengeparameter. This is because you need togo back to your Slack trigger andexecute step and your workflow will beready to receive the trigger. That'swhen they will send back the challengeparameter to the Slack API. Now, in thiscase, before we can hit execute step, weneed to populate the field, which is thechannel to watch. And there are a coupleways to pick your channels. As you cansee, you can either get it from this, byID, or by URL. So, we're going to pickfrom this. Click on all Slack automationlab. So, this is a general channel thatanybody can join. So, I'm going to hitexecute step. I'm going to go back tothe API page and hit retry. And thistime, it's going to say verify. And justbefore we go, I want to make sure thatsubscribe to the right event. So, undersubscribe to bot event, I want to addbot users event. In this case, I want toadd at mentioned, which is just makingsure that it's listening every time thatthis been mentioned. So, I'm going tohit save changes, and we should be readyto go. All right. And then, going backto our Slack page, as you can see, it'slistening for an event. And we don'thave an event right now becausenothing's been typed into our Slackchannel. And here, for it to listen tothe channel, we need to add the app intothe channel. And the way to do that isto go up to the member section here.Click on that. And where you want to gois toggle over to the integration bidand select the app that you want to add.So there you go. The N demo bot is nowadded to the channel.Now we're going to just do a trial runby hitting execute step.And that's going to wait for anytriggers while listening to the channel.And going back to the channel, what I'mgoing to do is I'm going to ping-demoand I'm just going to simply say hello.So I'm going to go back to my NN. As youcan see, it's now populated the SL liketrigger node. Now for SLE, there's quiteextensive amount of output payload andthe information that gets passed on tothe triggers. So of course the mostimportant bit is the text itself or thecontent of the text which is hello.But as you can see, you're also beingpassed other types of data like the userID as well as the channel ID and theevent timestamp. So all of those aregoing to be useful depending on the usecase of your workflow.Now once you've set it up, next notejust to play around with this is we'regoing to add an AI agent nodeand we're going to pick define belowand we're going to drag from Slackthe text contentand we're going to add a chat model.In this case, I'm just going to pickfollow mini.I'm also going to add some memorybecause I want to make sure that it'sgoing to be able to recall contextualknowledge or information from previouscompositions.So, in this case, the session ID that Iwant to pass to it is a channel ID.I'm not going to attach any tool for nowbecause essentially what I want tohappen is just for the AI agent to beable to chat with me on Slack. So I'mgoing to add the third node which is theSlack node and this timeI'm going to allow it to send messageback. So pick the right selectcredential in this case the select anddemo codecloudresources message operation as send. Andwe're going to choose send message tochannel and again we have to provide thechannel ID. Of course, you can pick fromthe list, but in this case, I'm going topick from the ID. And how do we get thisID? In this case, we want to go back tothe select channel.As you can see, if I click on the titleof the channel or the name of thechanneland I scroll down here, you're going tosee channel ID C099 AJ1 KP46. So, I'mgoing to copy that and go back to myedit end workflow and paste that in. SoI'm just trying to show you that thereare two ways to do this which is one bythe list and the second one by the ID.Actually there is a third one which isby URLbut typically selecting by ID will workfor all cases.Okay. So I don't have the parameters yetto drag into the message text. So I'mgoing to execute previous nodes.And there you go. There's an outputwhich is hello. How can I assist youtoday? I'm going to drag that, put itinto the message text,and I'm just going to hit execute step.All right, let's go back to our Slackchannel. And as you can see, it'sreplying to me on the channel saying,"Hello, how can I assist you today?" Andit also says automated with thisworkflow. So, we just want to click onadd option. We want to click on includelink to workflow and toggle that off.So, I hit execute step again.And when you go back to a slack channel,it says, "Hello, how can I assist youtoday without the automated open endworkflow appended to it?"Cool. So that's a simple way to connectyour Nen workflow to Slack. And ofcourse, there's a lot more cool stuffthat you can do on Slack, such asconfiguring the Slack model and alsobeing able to reply as a user. I'll seeyou in the next section. So one of themost useful features of ENN is theability to tap into thirdparty tools tobe used on your workflows. And thesecould include tools that are notnatively available on NDN. And the waysyou would do this would be through APIcalls, MCPS or webO calls. So in thissection, we're going to run through thefoundational workings of a typical HTTPrequest nodes as well as how to make APIcalls in three different scenarios. Sothe first scenario, we'll do a simpleAPI call to a public API endpoint thatdoesn't need any authentication in orderto get some fun little facts about cats.And on the second scenario, we're goingto make an API call to the openweathermap.orgto get you the latest information aboutthe weather on a specific city that yourequested. And finally, we'll make anAPI call to a web scraper calledFirecrawl that could intelligentlyscrape any web pages that you like. So,we're going to go ahead and build theworkflow here. And the first triggernote that we want to choose in this caseis a trigger manually note. The reasonwhy we're choosing this is because it'sa simplest one. And in this case,because there's no input that we want totransfer into the HTTP node at thispoint, we're going to start with this.So, we're going to hit execute flow tosee what sort of data that populates it.So, we're going to open it up. And asyou can see, it's an empty payload inthe output data. And this is good enoughbecause the next node is just the HTTPrequest node which does not need anyinput. So in this case I'm going to hitthe HTTP request node. There are acouple options that you can choose fromin terms of what type of HTTP requestthat you're trying to make. The mostpopular ones obviously the get and thepost. In this case we're going to staywith get. And the public API URLendpoint that we want to hit is thiscatfact ninja/fact.So there's no authentication requiredand we're just going to hit executestep. And as you can see, it returns adata output of a random fact about cats.So the random fact that we fetch is twomembers of a cat family are distinctfrom all others. The clouded leopard andthe cheetah. The clouded leopard doesnot roar like other big cats, nor doesit groom or rest like small cats. Okay,so that's very interesting. So now welike to do something a little bit moreuseful by calling an API on the weatherapp. So in this case, we're going todelete the HTTP node and reintroduce aHTTP request node again. In this case,we're going to choose post. And thepublic endpoint that we want to hit inthis case can be found atopenweathermap.org/curren.And you scroll down to the built-in APIrequest by city name. You'll be able tocopy and paste the API endpointsstraight into your workflow. So goingback to the workflow, we're going topaste this. And before I do anythingelse, I'm going to blow this up. And asyou can see, there are two variableshere. The first one being the city nameand the second one being the API key. Sofor the city name, we want to pick acity that we're interested in. In thiscase, London. And for the API key, weneed to key in a valid API key, whichcan be obtained from the website. Sogoing back to open weathermap.org,the first thing you need to do is tosign up and ask for free. And onceyou've signed up and gone through alittle fun onboarding questionnaire, youcan head to my API keys and you'll beable to view all the API keys that youhave with Open Weather. And you couldalso generate a new API key by clickingon this button over here. But in thiscase, we already have one set up. Sowe're just going to copy that and pasteit back in the workflow. Cool. Now thatwe filled that in, we're going toexecute step and we're going to togglethis into the schema format. As you cansee, the temperature, the maximum, theminimum temperature, as well as a cloudcoverage situation. Now, as you mighthave noticed, I've actually input theAPI key in the API endpoint itself. Buta better practice within Noden is to setup an authentication that's going topersist even after you're done with anote, which means you can use the samecredentials or API keys in a separatenote if you happen to need to work withthis particular app. So, I'm going toshow you how that's done. In this case,I'm going to hit authentication, selectgeneric credential type, and chooseheader O. And why did I choose Brit? Andthe reason why I'm choosing headerbecause the API keys itself is containedwithin the header section. Now, we wantto set the new credential. So, we'regoing to name this credential openweather map demo. Okay. And under name,I'm going to do X-API-K.And under value, I'm going to paste thesame API key. I'm going to hit on save.And there you go. My credential is savedunder the name open weather map demo.Now after setting it up as a header O,what I can do now is actually remove theAPI key section from the API endpoint.Now let's run that. As you can see, it'sgiving me back the same information. Theonly difference is now my API keys lieswithin the preset header authenticationsection here. And if I were to createanother node that works withopenweathermap.org, or I can simply usethe same header off credentials whereverI go. So this is just a very easy way togo through your workflow. Great. So nowwe're done with the weather app. What wewant to do is to try a differentscenario where we're actually calling anAPI endpoint of a web scrape. So let'sdelete this node. And what we want to dois again to reintroduce the HTTP requestnode. And this time we're going to makea post request to a web scraper endpointcalled firecraw. So we're going torename this firecrawl scrape. So whenyou head to fcraw.dev, this may lookdifferent depending on whether you'vesigned up or not. I'm already signed in,so this page will look slightlydifferent for you, but essentially tosign up, you just have to go through afun little onboarding questionnaire andpretty