want to declare an Iframeiframe like thisI frame with the source beingwidget.htmllike that. Then we want to set an ID sayset say child like this. And then in thescript we want to find the widget.So document getelement by id find bfinding childand then sending the post message to it.We can just go back here. We can go backto the main script here. We can go sayjust copy paste this stuff. Childcontextwindow. We'll just copy paste itdirectly from the main one. And then itwill say hereinstead of child say frame contentwindow post message.Instead of that we're going to send amalicious post message this time whichis going to allow us to get thevulnerability. We're going to say likescript alert like this thing here. Weget this down here as well.And then we'll say like that any originsallowed. Yeah. And hopefully this willwork. I might have to add a few thingsto it. And then we'll go into evil.htmlhere. And then what's happening here?Sometimes you might need to actuallywait for the iframe to open before youactually send the request. So we just gohere, say unload like this, and thenwhen it's loaded, we can just post amessage. So just say here, thenhopefully the frame will do that stuff.Maybe not.Okay, it's injected the script alert. Idon't know why it hasn't popped though.It should have popped.Weird.Maybe we'll try a different payload.We'll sayimage source x on error which is equalto alert like this which closes here.We'll save that instead. And then youcan see the alert has popped. So it'spopped inside this iframe. So that thisthis is not like an XSS cross scriptingvulnerability on this website. It'sactually affecting the inside thewidget. So we can use the cookies fromthe widget and not on the main website.That's how this cross scriptingvulnerability works there. Yeah, that'skind of it for post messages. We cansend a request in and then we can eitherget a sync or we can hope that the postmessage will throw up some kind ofsensitive information if it hasn't.Those are the two things that we cankind of hope for when we attack postmessages. One place that I've actuallyseen post messages implemented a lot isin third-party integrations. Let's say awebsite opens like a pop-up for likesome other third party service like anAI chatbot for example like the rightcorner and it wants to integrate it intoits own website. A lot of the time theonly way to communicate between thatpop-up is going to be throughimplementing a post message handler ontheir side which is going to communicatewith the pop-up.And this can open the door tovulnerabilities, right? Because thecompany has to code in their own postmessage listener and then verify thatit's actually coming from the pop-up,which a lot of companies are not verygood at. But for example, if this eventorigin thing if it's getting checkedwrong or if it's too lenient or if it'slike a reax and a h and hacker could beable to bypass it and then masquerade asthe pop-up and then depending on whatinformation is being passed from thepop-up to the website and what impact ithas on the actual on the actual toplevel domain, then a hacker could beable to escalate and try and achievesome like cross-ite scripting. Let's sayan example is like there's a popup on anI frame but then the iframe has tochange its source to some kind ofdifferent location and then the toplevel domain will have to change thesource of the iframe from a post messagefrom that pop-up right it's a bitconfusing you have this like you knowiframe on the bottom whatever right andso it's sent the pop-up will send a postmessage with a URL that's going tocontain do the URL of the next iframethat the top level domain will changethe iframe source to. And if the toplevel domain is overly lenient ontrusting this pop-up or trusting theor just trusting the origin that it'scoming from, then what an attacker mightbe able to do is send a URL with aJavaScript URI. And when the websitegoes to set the iframe to thisJavaScript URI, then it's going toachieve cross-ite scripting. Or if itdoesn't allow the JavaScript URI, thenmaybe we could embed an attacker controliframe in this website and then startlooking to chain other vulnerabilitiesor just report some like fishingvulnerability or whatever. So this canlead to vulnerabilities especially whenthird party integrations are involved.And again, some thirdparty integrationsare not very securely coded and theirJavaScript might not be great, whichcould allow us to basicallyto basically find vulnerabilities on thetop level domain. Remember as well thatif you can get cross-ite scripting on aniframe, then you can send post messageswith any content you want to the toplevel domain. So that could be a waythat even if the actual top level domaincorrectly verifies the origin but thentrust the iframe with the message if youcan get cross-ite scripting on the thirdparty iframe well then you will probablybe able to get cross-ite scripting onthe top level domain as well but lookingat these third party implementations isa great way to attack post messages andjust to end off the video I'm going totalk about some JavaScript librariesthat I often see JavaScript librariesare things that other developers importinto their code and that they run on theclient side. And DOM purify is one ofthe ones from a security perspectivethat is actually interesting to us. Justgo back to the main one here. Dom purifywhat it does it is it allows us to writeHTML onto the DOM but it filters outcross scripting. So it prevents us fromdoing stuff like adding in like scripttags. It prevents the attributes thatallow JavaScript inside of them and itwill prevent those cross scriptingvulnerabilities.Why might someone allow to people towrite JavaScript or why would they allowthis? Well, say you have like a profileand you have like a profile inside webpage and we want to add allow users toadd a description. Makes sense to allowthose allow them to use markdown on theweb page to actually like underline textor like have like a text editor andstuff like that just to look a bitnicer, you know. And to do that, we haveto sanitize away all the possiblecrossite scripting stuff so that itdoesn't end up affecting the actual webpage. And to do that, a lot of peopleuse this library called DOM purify,which you can find here on the internet.Usually, the way you include it is youjust download it and then you just add ascript tag. As you can see, I've addedright here, it's called purify.js.And that will allow us to actually useit inside our code. You see here, we canuse purify this class name here. Andthen we can sanitize stuff away.Let's try it out. We'll write somethinglike test here like that. Say okay. Andyou can see that we've actually injectedthe HTML. So that's nice. That'sintended. We want to do that. Now whatintended is for example if I came hereand wrote like script instead of thatand then I said like test next to itinstead. So yes, we put it down and youcan see that the script did not make itinto the actual DOM. So it was sanitizedaway. That's the main way people use DOMpurify. It just sanitize away all thecross scripting. It's very safe. It'slike gets regular updates. If people areusing the latest version of Dom purify,there should be absolutely no issue.There are like regular security, youknow, security problems that emerge likefor example here September 16th, October11th through 31st, 2024. Vulnerabilitiesdo happen in this library as they do inlike every other library. So you need tokeep them up to date. The main way youcan find a vulnerability with someoneusing DOM purify is to see what versionthey're using. If you go here, they'reusing version 2.4.2, too which beforethat was affected by this prototypepollution. It was critical. So imagineyou could just do like a crossitescripting there. You can see the latestone is 3.3.1which will it will say it on type thethe DOM purify script. So if you seethis purify and you see this version islike lower than this that means that youcan go read up on this commit messagehere you can load this diff here and youcan figure out what was wrong and thenyou can launch the vulnerability fromthere.That's the main way that you can exploitJavaScript libraries is by looking atthe previous security vulnerabilitiesand then seeing if they're using anoutdated version. One of the cool placesthat I've actually seen an outdatedversion of DOM purify deployed is inSwagger UI. Swagger UI is whatvisualizes the API requests for an APIdomain. It's often used in like bookbounty labs where you have like thisswagger and it's like you know the thingis like try it out yourself or whatever.You can like click it and add yourauthorization header or whatever.But there's basically a DOM cross-itescripting vulnerability between likethese uh versions because this UI toolwas using an outdated version of the DOMpurify library. But if you're able tofind this swagger UI between theseversions here on a website, then you canbasically get DOM XSS on it just becausethey were using an outdated version ofDOM purify. This is going to show youthat checking whether a application isusing old versions of libraries isactually a very good way to findvulnerabilities. And I think there's atool for this. I think there's onecalled retirejs.This one here. Maybe let's look at thethe GitHub request here. This one here,which basically will scan for outdatedcomponents, outdated JavaScriptlibraries as you're actually looking ata web page. So, this could be useful asjust kind of a passive scanner and maybeit'll at some point pay its debt andfind you a vulnerability. And there'salso a Firefox extension. So, it'sreally like it's really like a loweffortway to scan for these outdated librariesand maybe get some kind of vulnerabilityat some point just because you just gotalerted to an outdated library beingused. Obviously, keep in mind that thecompanies themselves will be runningthese tools as well. So, you know, Idon't know how effective that's going tobe. I haven't personally found avulnerability to this myself. However, Ihave heard of other people doing it.Have read ups of people that have foundvulnerabilities because of it. So, it'sprobably worth a try. I hope you enjoyedthis full guide covering the manualhacking methodology. If you managed towatch the whole video, then you probablyhave a 0.001%attention span, better than like 99.9%of people. So, you'll have absolutely noissues implementing the stuff from thisvideo and becoming a successful hackerbecause that kind of attention span isextremely rare nowadays. If you didenjoy the video, then please do leave alike and subscribe to the channel andleave a comment if you did enjoy thevideo as well. Anyways, that's it forme. Thanks for watching and happyhunting.