[Music]This is a three. It's sloppily writtenand rendered at an extremely lowresolution of 28x 28 pixels. But yourbrain has no trouble recognizing it as athree. And I want you to take a momentto appreciate how crazy it is thatbrains can do this so effortlessly. Imean this, this, and this are alsorecognizable as threes. Even though thespecific values of each pixel is verydifferent from one image to the next,the particular light sensitive cells inyour eye that are firing when you seethis three are very different from theones firing when you see this three. Butsomething in that crazy smart visualcortex of yours resolves these asrepresenting the same idea while at thesame time recognizing other images astheir own distinct ideas. But if I toldyou, hey, sit down and write for me aprogram that takes in a grid of 28x 28pixels like this and outputs a singlenumber between 0 and 10, telling youwhat it thinks the digit is. While thetask goes from comically trivial todauntingly difficult, unless you've beenliving under a rock, I think I hardlyneed to motivate the relevance andimportance of machine learning andneural networks to the present and tothe future. But what I want to do hereis show you what a neural networkactually is, assuming no background, andto help visualize what it's doing, notas a buzzword, but as a piece of math.My hope is just that you come awayfeeling like the structure itself ismotivated and to feel like you know whatit means when you read or you hear abouta neural network, quote unquote,learning. This video is just going to bedevoted to the structure component ofthat. And the following one is going totackle learning. What we're going to dois put together a neural network thatcan learn to recognize handwrittendigits.This is a somewhat classic example forintroducing the topic. And I'm happy tostick with the status quo here becauseat the end of the two videos, I want topoint you to a couple good resourceswhere you can learn more and where youcan download the code that does this andplay with it on your own computer.There are many many variants of neuralnetworks and in recent years there'sbeen sort of a boom in research towardsthese variants. But in these twointroductory videos, you and I are justgoing to look at the simplest plainvanilla form with no added frills. Thisis kind of a necessary prerequisite forunderstanding any of the more powerfulmodern variants. And trust me, it stillhas plenty of complexity for us to wrapour minds around. But even in thissimplest form, it can learn to recognizehandwritten digits, which is a prettycool thing for a computer to be able todo. And at the same time, you'll see howit does fall short of a couple hopesthat we might have for it.As the name suggests, neural networksare inspired by the brain. But let'sbreak that down. What are the neurons,and in what sense are they linkedtogether? Right now, when I say neuron,all I want you to think about is a thingthat holds a number. specifically anumber between zero and one. It's reallynot more than that.For example, the network starts with abunch of neurons corresponding to eachof the 28 * 28 pixels of the inputimage, which is 784 neurons in total.Each one of these holds a number thatrepresents the grayscale value of thecorresponding pixel, ranging from zerofor black pixels up to one for whitepixels. This number inside the neuron iscalled its activation. And the image youmight have in mind here is that eachneuron is lit up when its activation isa high number.So all of these 784 neurons make up thefirst layer of our network.Now jumping over to the last layer. Thishas 10 neurons each representing one ofthe digits. The activation in theseneurons, again, some number that'sbetween 0 and 1, represents how much thesystem thinks that a given imagecorresponds with a given digit. There'salso a couple layers in between calledthe hidden layers, which for the timebeing should just be a giant questionmark for how on earth this process ofrecognizing digits is going to behandled. In this network, I chose twohidden layers, each one with 16 neurons.And admittedly, that's kind of anarbitrary choice to be honest. I chosetwo layers based on how I want tomotivate the structure in just a moment.And 16, well, that was just a nicenumber to fit on the screen. Inpractice, there is a lot of room forexperiment with a specific structurehere. The way the network operates,activations in one layer determine theactivations of the next layer. And ofcourse, the heart of the network as aninformation processing mechanism comesdown to exactly how those activationsfrom one layer bring about activationsin the next layer. It's meant to beloosely analogous to how in biologicalnetworks of neurons, some groups ofneurons firing cause certain others tofire. Now, the network I'm showing herehas already been trained to recognizedigits. And let me show you what I meanby that. It means if you feed in animage lighting up all 784 neurons of theinput layer according to the brightnessof each pixel in the image, that patternof activations causes some very specificpattern in the next layer, which causessome pattern in the one after it, whichfinally gives some pattern in the outputlayer. And the brightest neuron of thatoutput layer is the network's choice, soto speak, for what digit this imagerepresents.And before jumping into the math for howone layer influences the next or howtraining works, let's just talk aboutwhy it's even reasonable to expect alayered structure like this to behaveintelligently. What are we expectinghere? What is the best hope for whatthose middle layers might be doing?Well, when you or I recognize digits, wepiece together various components. A 9has a loop up top and a line on theright. An eight also has a loop up top,but it's paired with another loop downlow. A four basically breaks down intothree specific lines and things likethat. Now, in a perfect world, we mighthope that each neuron in the second tolast layer corresponds with one of thesesubcomponents. That anytime you feed inan image with, say, a loop up top, likea 9 or an 8, there's some specificneuron whose activation is going to beclose to one. And I don't mean thisspecific loop of pixels. The hope wouldbe that any generally loopy patterntowards the top sets off this neuron.That way, going from the third layer tothe last one just requires learningwhich combination of subcomponentscorresponds to which digits. Of course,that just kicks the problem down theroad because how would you recognizethese subcomponents or even learn whatthe right subcomponents should be? And Istill haven't even talked about how onelayer influences the next. But run withme on this one for a moment. Recognizinga loop can also break down into subpros.One reasonable way to do this would beto first recognize the various littleedges that make it up. Similarly, a longline like the kind you might see in thedigits 1 or four or seven. Well, that'sreally just a long edge. Or maybe youthink of it as a certain pattern ofseveral smaller edges. So maybe our hopeis that each neuron in the second layerof the network corresponds with thevarious relevant little edges. Maybewhen an image like this one comes in, itlights up all of the neurons associatedwith around 8 to 10 specific littleedges, which in turn lights up theneurons associated with the upper loopand a long vertical line, and thoselight up the neuron associated with anine. Whether or not this is what ourfinal network actually does is anotherquestion, one that I'll come back toonce we see how to train the network.But this is a hope that we might have asort of goal with the layered structurelike this. Moreover, you can imagine howbeing able to detect edges and patternslike this would be really useful forother image recognition tasks. And evenbeyond image recognition, there are allsorts of intelligent things you mightwant to do that break down into layersof abstraction. Parsing speech, forexample, involves taking raw audio andpicking out distinct sounds whichcombine to make certain syllables, whichcombine to form words, which combine tomake up phrases and more abstractthoughts, etc. But getting back to howany of this actually works, pictureyourself right now designing how exactlythe activations in one layer mightdetermine the activations in the next.The goal is to have some mechanism thatcould conceivably combine pixels intoedges or edges into patterns or patternsinto digits. And to zoom in on one veryspecific example, let's say the hope isfor one particular neuron in the secondlayer to pick up on whether or not theimage has an edge in this region here.The question at hand is what parametersshould the network have? What dials andknobs should you be able to tweak sothat it's expressive enough topotentially capture this pattern or anyother pixel pattern or the pattern thatseveral edges can make a loop and othersuch things. Well, what we'll do isassign a weight to each one of theconnections between our neuron and theneurons from the first layer. Theseweights are just numbers. Then take allof those activations from the firstlayer and compute their weighted sumaccording to these weights.I find it helpful to think of theseweights as being organized into a littlegrid of their own. And I'm going to usegreen pixels to indicate positiveweights and red pixels to indicatenegative weights where the brightness ofthat pixel is some loose depiction ofthe weights value. Now, if we made theweights associated with almost all ofthe pixels zero, except for somepositive weights in this region that wecare about, then taking the weighted sumof all the pixel values really justamounts to adding up the values of thepixel just in the region that we careabout.And if you really wanted to pick up onwhether there's an edge here, what youmight do is have some negative weightsassociated with the surrounding pixels.Then the sum is largest when thosemiddle pixels are bright but thesurrounding pixels are darker.When you compute a weighted sum likethis, you might come out with anynumber. But for this network, what wewant is for activations to be some valuebetween 0 and 1. So a common thing to dois to pump this weighted sum into somefunction that squishes the real numberline into the range between 0 and 1. Anda common function that does this iscalled the sigmoid function, also knownas a logistic curve. Basically, verynegative inputs end up close to zero,very positive inputs end up close toone, and it just steadily increasesaround the input zero.So, the activation of the neuron here isbasically a measure of how positive therelevant weighted sum is.But maybe it's not that you want theneuron to light up when the weighted sumis bigger than zero. Maybe you only wantit to be active when the sum is biggerthan say 10. That is you want some biasfor it to be inactive.What we'll do then is just add in someother number like -10 to this weightedsum before plugging it through thesigmoid squishification function. Thatadditional number is called the bias. Sothe weights tell you what pixel patternthis neuron in the second layer ispicking up on and the bias tells you howhigh the weighted sum needs to be beforethe neuron starts getting meaningfullyactive. And that is just one neuron.Every other neuron in this layer isgoing to be connected to all 784 pixelneurons from the first layer. And eachone of those 784 connections has its ownweight associated with it. Also, eachone has some bias, some other numberthat you add on to the weighted sumbefore squishing it with the sigmoid.And that's a lot to think about. Withthis hidden layer of 16 neurons, that'sa total of 784*16 weights along with 16 biases. And allof that is just the connections from thefirst layer to the second. Theconnections between the other layersalso have a bunch of weights and biasesassociated with them. All said and done,this network has almost exactly 13,000total weights and biases. 13,000 knobsand dials that can be tweaked and turnedto make this network behave in differentways. So when we talk about learning,what that's referring to is getting thecomputer to find a valid setting for allof these many, many numbers so thatit'll actually solve the problem athand.One thought experiment that is at oncefun and kind of horrifying is to imaginesitting down and setting all of theseweights and biases by hand, purposefullytweaking the numbers so that the secondlayer picks up on edges, the third layerpicks up on patterns, etc. I personallyfind this satisfying rather than justtreating the network as a total blackbox. Because when the network doesn'tperform the way you anticipate, ifyou've built up a little bit of arelationship with what those weights andbiases actually mean, you have astarting place for experimenting withhow to change the structure to improveor when the network does work, but notfor the reasons you might expect.Digging into what the weights and biasesare doing is a good way to challengeyour assumptions and really expose thefull space of possible solutions. By theway, the actual function here is alittle cumbersome to write down, don'tyou think?So, let me show you a more notationallycompact way that these connections arerepresented. This is how you'd see it ifyou choose to read up more about neuralnetworks. Organize all of theactivations from one layer into a columnas a vector.Then, organize all of the weights as amatrix where each row of that matrixcorresponds to the connections betweenone layer and a particular neuron in thenext layer. What that means is thattaking the weighted sum of theactivations in the first layer accordingto these weights corresponds to one ofthe terms in the matrix vector productof everything we have on the left here.By the way, so much of machine learningjust comes down to having a good graspof linear algebra. So for any of you whowant a nice visual understanding formatrices and what matrix vectormultiplication means, take a look at theseries I did on linear algebra,especially chapter 3. Back to ourexpression, instead of talking aboutadding the bias to each one of thesevalues independently, we represent it byorganizing all those biases into avector and adding the entire vector tothe previous matrix vector product. Thenas a final step, I'll wrap a sigmoidaround the outside here. And what that'ssupposed to represent is that you'regoing to apply the sigmoid function toeach specific component of the resultingvector inside.So once you write down this weightmatrix and these vectors as their ownsymbols, you can communicate the fulltransition of activations from one layerto the next in an extremely tight andneat little expression. And this makesthe relevant code both a lot simpler anda lot faster since many librariesoptimize the heck out of matrixmultiplication.Rememberhow earlier I said these neurons aresimply things that hold numbers? Well,of course, the specific numbers thatthey hold depends on the image you feedin.So, it's actually more accurate to thinkof each neuron as a function. One thattakes in the outputs of all the neuronsin the previous layer and spits out anumber between 0 and 1. Really, theentire network is just a function. onethat takes in 784 numbers as an inputand spits out 10 numbers as an output.It's an absurdly complicated function,one that involves 13,000 parameters inthe forms of these weights and biasesthat pick up on certain patterns andwhich involves iterating many matrixvector products and the sigmoidsquishification function. But it's justa function nonetheless. And in a way,it's kind of reassuring that it lookscomplicated. I mean, if it were anysimpler, what hope would we have that itcould take on the challenge ofrecognizing digits? And how does it takeon that challenge? How does this networklearn the appropriate weights and biasesjust by looking at data? Well, that'swhat I'll show in the next video. AndI'll also dig a little more into whatthis particular network we're seeing isreally doing.Now is the point I suppose I should saysubscribe to stay notified about whenthat video or any new videos come out.But realistically, most of you don'tactually receive notifications fromYouTube, do you? Maybe more honestly, Ishould say subscribe so that the neuralnetworks that underly YouTube'srecommendation algorithm are primed tobelieve that you want to see contentfrom this channel get recommended toyou. Anyway, stay posted for more. Thankyou very much to everyone supportingthese videos on Patreon. I've been alittle slow to progress in theprobability series this summer, but I'mjumping back into it after this project.So, patrons, you can look out forupdates there.To close things off here, I have with meLeysa Lee, who did her PhD work on thetheoretical side of deep learning andwho currently works at a venture capitalfirm called Amplify Partners, who kindlyprovided some of the funding for thisvideo. So, Leysa, one thing I think weshould quickly bring up is this sigmoidfunction. As I understand it, earlynetworks used this to squish therelevant weighted sum into that intervalbetween 0 and one. You know, kind ofmotivated by this biological analogy ofneurons either being inactive or active.Exactly. But relatively few modernnetworks actually use sigmoid anymore.That's kind of old school, right?Yeah. Or rather, relu seems to be mucheasier to train.And relu relu stands for rectifiedlinear unit.Yes. It's this kind of function whereyou're just taking a max of zero and awhere a is given by what you wereexplaining in the video. And what thiswas sort of motivated from, I think, wasa partially by a biological analogy withhow neurons would either be activated ornot. And so if it passes a certainthreshold, it would be the identityfunction, but if it did not, then itwould just not be activated. So be zero.So it's kind of a simplification. Usingsigmoids didn't help training or it wasvery difficult to train at at somepoint. and people just tried ReLU and ithappened to work very well for theseincredibly um deep uh neural networks.All right, thank you Alicia.[Music]