we now have thesame email. This is your scheduledwelcome email. And then we also havethat 5-minute block that we talkedabout. Uh it's almost 1000 p.m. UTC,which is why that time says that. Cool.So, hopefully I've convinced you guysthat setting up these sorts of web hookbased triggers and schedule basedtriggers is actually really easy. Thatdefinitely isn't the bottleneck here.Before with uh no code platforms likeZapier and NADN and make.com and stufflike that, you had to be a lot moreprecise. Now you just get the URL andwhat can we do with the you know webhook URL? Well, now I can just connectit to whatever service I want. I couldvery easily set it up so that let's saywhen one of my prospects moves to thesend proposal stage in my ClickUp CRMfor instance, which by the way I cancontrol completely um agentically usingthe agentic workflow that I set uppreviously as an example. uh you know wethen trigger the web hook and maybe thatoccurs automatically as well. And so inthis way we build a full endto-endcompletely automatic flow with web hookURLs that I could share within myorganization or give to other people.And that's it. You now know how to buildworkflows that essentially run withoutyou. The next step is to take this tothe next level. Right now we've beenrunning agents sequentially which justmeans one at a time. But imagine afuture where you could actually runmultiple agents simultaneously. That'swhat this next chapter is going to beabout. It's going to be aboutparallelizing your work to multiply youroutput. Essentially, you're going to gofrom one employee to a whole team.Instead of doing things like this whereyou finish task one and then you do tasktwo and then you do task three, we'reactually going to in one fell swoopactually do tasks one, two, and three.Then we're just going to recombine theoutputs. And we can um do thisarbitrarily basically all the way to nservice workers or threads or or orinstances of an agent so long as you setup the environment right. Okay. Okay, sohow do you set up multiple agentssimultaneously? Well, spoiler alert, allyou're really doing is just openingmultiple terminal instances. Nothingsuper magical here. In VS Code oranti-gravity or any terminal basedworkflow, they all provide you theability to open multiple panes, whichallows you to run Gemini, GPT, CloudCode, whatever the heck you want indifferent terminal windows. My favoriteway to do this right now, and sort of myoptimal, is three. I don't really workwith more than three simultaneouslyunless we're doing long background tasksjust because I find that my attentionstarts wavering and I start losingeffectiveness at like remembering whatthe heck I'm doing. I always just dothis vertically, left, middle, andright. I'll show you guys examples ofall that stuff in a minute. So insteadof just doing all of this within asingle IDE, you can also be kind ofsmart about it. Uh most models arebasically at approximately the samelevel right now. Like if this is threedifferent models, they're basically allcapping out at similar levels ofintelligence. There are modeldifferences between them, but most ofthem are trained in the same data,trained in similar ways, and so they'reall kind of like reaching same levelsright now. So if you find yourself withan IDE or a model, I should say like umGemini within anti-gravity that isstricter rate limits or higher costs,instead of running like three instancesof let's say Claude against each other,you could run one instance of Claude,then you could run one instance ofGemini, and you could run one instanceof like GPT 5.2 or something. By doingall this stuff simultaneously, thefrontier models will remain at a similarintelligence level. You're also going toget some slightly different ways to dowork which can be beneficial for you ifyou're still in the building stage orthe doing stage not necessarily runningthis sort of stuff um really high scaleand then because we have the sameinitialization files agents MD cloud MDGemini MD etc there's no functionaldifference for the model as a resultinstead of let's say like this is thethe the threshold here where you knowyou pay $200 a month for the plan ofclaude I think this is like a the claudemax plan or something like that and thenyou have to pay another I don't know$100 in credits after you hit thisthreshold, right? So, instead of beinglike this, what we basically do is weget to use three models instead and keepthem below that threshold the entiretime. I'm going to show you guys thisand a bunch of others um in anti-gravityand then uh you know, have you guys runthrough practical ways to do this. Um,another thing I wanted to mention waspractical limits on parallel agents. So,I find that in practice, twosimultaneous agents is probably theaverage baseline that I like stickingat. Four agents is what I consider to bemy soft max before things start gettingcounterproductive. Like it seems reallycool when you have a million tabs openand all these agents are working onthings. You feel like a superpower,right? But you're not actually beingproductive. You're just feelingproductive. So instead of like being ina situation like that where most of theagent time will actually be spentwaiting for you to like see the tab andlike do something with it. I want youguys to know that feeling busy is notthe same thing as actually being busy.Feeling productive is not the same thingas being productive. So this is a goodway to just like help monitor that. Istick to three to four. Any more thanthat, you're probably just shootingyourself in the foot. Okay. Okay, soI've talked a little bit about thisbefore, but you know, when you don'tknow how to build a workflow, you have acouple of approaches here. You canobviously just say, "Hey, can you builda workflow for me that does this?" Andit's like a first pass. That's fine. Butan advanced way to do it is actuallysay, "Hey, can you give me threeapproaches to build this thing?" Whatyou do is you take those threeapproaches and you give them to eitherseparate models or separate instances.Then what you do is once they're alldone, you test to see which one scoresthe best. So maybe this one here scores75%, this one here scores 84%, this onehere scores 99%. What are you going todo? Obviously you're going to use thisone, right? This one's the bestcombination of speed, cost, accuracy,and so on and so forth. In doing this,rather than having to um, you know, geta subpar solution and then slowly likemake a bunch of changes to get to thispoint. You can actually just run thesethree agents in parallel and get threetimes the total search space instead oflike manually going through this processone by one by one. I want you to imaginedividing this into three sections,having three of these little snakes goat the same time, which is just much,much faster, and then ultimately buildsomething that is way better and waymore scalable. How do you do this?Really straightforward. Just send thatbrief list of bullet points describingwhat you want to build to one agent.Then say, can you generate threedistinct approaches with in-depth stepsfor each because I'm going to send thisover to another model. Also, give mesome pros and cons so I can understandthe trade-offs up front. And you know,this will take you a few minutes upfront, but it'll also save you a lot oftime because if you go with a subparsolution initially, two or three hoursdown the line, you may still be workingout some bugs or kinks or ways to makethings faster. Whereas, if you juststarted with the right architectureright off the bat, you would have hadall that stuff solved. Once you're donewith that, it's pretty easy. Just openthree separate instances of your agent,one for every approach. Give each agenta dedicated working folder. I like doingthis in TMP. So I do like uh temporaryfolder SL1 temporary folder SL2temporary folder SL3 and actually justcopy a prompt and I'll say hey you'recurrently working in this folder. Thereason why is because we're creatingthree copies of a similar build withthree different approaches. I want to doit here so that we're not, you know,crisscrossing files and so on and soforth. I'll show you guys a briefexample what that looks like in amoment. Once you're done, you justreview all three outputs side by side.Pick your favorite approach based offthe actual results and the theoreticalassumptions. Then you move the winningsolution into DO or whatever it is thatyou're using, cloud skills and so on andso forth. Once it's moved over, youobviously also have to retesteverything. And the reason why isbecause if you don't retest everythingwhen the files are moved over, there mayjust be some issues with file referencesand that sort of thing. So this lets youdo three builds in the same amount oftime. Best one wins. You can obviouslydo exactly what I'm talking about, notjust for the building, but also for thedoing. You can run dozens of agents. Andthere are also things like backgroundtasks which allow you to run agents sortof like in the background so that youcould still do something else inparallel on top of it within a singlethread. So I've talked a lot aboutbuilding agentic workflows until now.But what I wanted to do here is justgive you guys a brief demonstration ofwhat using agentic workflows looks likein my day-to-day. So to be clear, Ipersonally do a few things with myday-to-day. Number one is I runleftclick which is a growth/outboundAI enabled agency. We basically help yougo to market for a product or service orscale up an existing product's outreachusing AI and lead scraping mechanismslike you see here. We let you buildcompletely autonomous outbound pipelinesthat don't rely on you or your team. Youjust end up with a bunch of bookedmeetings to sell your service in you oryour salesperson's calendar. The othermain thing I do is I create content likethis. So I make YouTube videos. I writebig long guides on how to, you know,build with agentic workflows and stufflike that. And so I'm constantlyjuggling between these two things. Thethird thing is I run a school community,actually a series of school communities.One called Maker School over here andone called Make Money with Make overhere. And so I have a fair amount that Ihave to do on a daily basis as I'm sureyou can imagine. You know, I have to dothings for Leftclick that are kind ofolder school agency things. I need tocreate proposals and, you know, I needto scrape leads from my clients andonboard them and stuff like that. Then Ihave to do things for school like I haveto manage replies. I have to, you know,send and receive DMs. I have to answerpeople's questions and so on and soforth. Plus, I have to do things forYouTube, like I have to create scriptsand monitor YouTube for competitors andstuff like that. So, let me just giveyou a brief example of what me doing allthree of these things simultaneouslywould look like in an Agentic workflow.So, the first thing I'm going to do isI'm going to have this run throughbasically my end to-end agency flowusing a demo kickoff call transcriptthat uh I'm pulling up from my TMPfolder. This is just plain text. Um, youknow, I could pull this up from likeFireflies or any other liketranscription tool if I wanted. I'vejust stored this plain text inside ofTMP for simplicity. So, I'll say run thepost kickoff flow for demo kickoff calltranscriptover here. you know, maybe I'm justgetting started for the day and I wantto see what sorts of YouTube outliersthere are. Uh, with those YouTubeoutliers, I'm going to be able toideulate a new video or something likethat, come up with an outline and so onand so forth. So, I'll say run theYouTube outlier workflow and find mebetween 10 to 20 outliers for agenticworkflows.This is what I'm going to be doing afair amount today because, as you guyscould see, I'm recording a video onagentic workflows and, you know, it'ssort of like the hot topic now. And overhere on the right, I'm obviouslymanaging my school community. And so Ibuilt up some agentic workflows to helpme pull relevant questions and commentsand stuff like that from school. Pullthe top 10 most recent school posts fromMaker School. And so now I have thesethree clawed code instances basicallyrunning in the background for me. Andall I'm going to do as somebody that is,you know, attempting to be economicallyproductive is I'm just going to sit hereand then watch over these and then, youknow, add and chime in where necessary.So over here on the left hand side, it'sasking me some simple questions. I'mjust because I'm doing a demo here, sayNick at leftuh leftclick.ai AIdo the lead genen with modified queryand then everything else too. Cool. Overhere on the right hand side I see thatwe're done with my school post. So now Ihave a bunch of information about this.Looks like Suam recently posted a coldemail guide. So I'm going to say Suam'scold email guide. Run me through hisstep by step. This over here in themiddle is using the tube labab API whichis part of one of the agentic workflowsthat I put together to go and thenscrape me a bunch of um outliers. So oneof our members was kind enough to sharewith us how he made $500,000 in about 6months or so using instantly which is acold email tool and then a lot of thesame um you know principles that we talkabout here. So he ran through andactually provided a ton of info and Imean I'm just curious what that lookslike. I could of course use the schoolUI. I could log into school and thenscroll through the post myself and stufflike that. But I set up an agenticworkflow to do this. Why? Because itbecomes really easy to do really coolthings with agentic workflows inside ofschool. Like hypothetically, I get a lotof questions, right? And what I did wasI built a rag or retrieval augmentedgeneration uh tool that essentiallylooks every time somebody asks aquestion to see if something similar hasbeen answered in the community before.If so, it actually goes and it gives methe link. Then what I can do is as Irespond to them, I could just copy thelink over and say, "By the way, if youwant a much more detailed explanation,check out this post or so on and soforth." So, what I'm seeing here on thecross niche outlier sheet is it'slooking like we're not including all umAI based uh results. And that's probablybecause realistically there just aren'tany competitors for agentic workflowsyet because I've kind of coined theterm. So, that's great for me. What I'mgoing to do now is I'm just going tohave it run some sort of outlier scraperfor terms like AI agents instead. Thatshould give me a fair amount of stuff towork with. Anyway, on the right handside here, now we're done with this.This is great.Fantastic.Comment extremely valuable guide. So,what I'm going to do is use my schoolsystem to go through this, get all ofthe post ID and stuff like that, andthen actually send a comment on thatsaying, you know, excellent or extremelyvaluable guide. If I open this up andthen scroll all the way down to thebottom, you can see that I just left acomment here saying super valuableguide. And so, I basically get tocommunicate with school, which is aservice that previously required agraphical user interface, just entirelythrough an agentic workflow instead,which is fantastic. I'm sure futureversions of Aentic Workflows will beable to recreate the UX any flavor orway that I want, but for now, this ispretty cool for me. I don't mind. Overon the left hand side, you can see wecame up with 15 leads. The reason why Idid 15 and not say 1,500 just because itwas trying to be mindful of my tokencosts, knew that I was doing this aspart of a demo. Um, we've actuallyalready gone through and and got what Ithink is nine emails, which is cool. Andthen after that, if we scroll a littlebit further down, this actually wentthrough and uploaded leads to thecampaign, which is pretty sweet. It theneven added things to a knowledge baseand then even went as far as to send asummary email to my client, which inthis case I just used my own email forum basically telling them, hey, youknow, we're done with the campaign andso on and so forth. What's really coolis it also gave me three links. So, I'mjust going to open up these three links,which take me directly to my cold emailtool um where I can actually see the umcampaigns that it came up with. So, thismight sound crazy, but hear me out. Iwant to generate 50,000 in revenue forcompany name in the next 90 days. If Idon't hit that number, I'll work forfree until I do. How? LinkedIn thoughtleadership. I run a company. We spentsix years helping 200 partners atprofessional services firms turnLinkedIn into a revenue channel.Counting firms, consultancies, financialadviserss, executive coaches. Ourclients regularly close 50K dealsdirectly from LinkedIn. Some see 3 to10x follower growth and most startgetting two to three inbound leads permonth once the content machine isrunning. I know this is bold, but I'mconfident we could do something similarfor you when you open to a quick chat.No pressure, just a conversation. Imean, this is just one of threecampaigns with two split tests each.Obviously, while this copy is uh I wouldconsider very punchy and probably[snorts] higher quality than like 80 85%of all of the copy that other people arerunning for campaigns like this. I'mgoing to like take a look at the copy,maybe make some minor changes before Iactually go through the process. Um, butit's still pretty great, right? I didnotice that there was an issue herewhere the Gmail MCP was notauthenticated. So, um, because I wasshowing you guys how to authenticateMCPS in another video here, it was ademo that I did a few hours ago. um itunauthenticated my MCP. Obviously, ifthis occurs, you need to reauthenticate,right? So, what I would do in this casewould be reauthenticate MCP and then itwould just go through that processtogether. On the right hand side here,I'm going to say something like, hey,what sorts of questions have been askedin the last 24 hours that I can answer.So now I'm going to get a list ofquestions the right hand side here.That's pretty straightforward. While I'mdoing this, I'm reauthenticating myGmail MCP. That's going to trigger OOTH,which is pretty cool. in the middlehere. We're still scraping moreoutliers.Would you give