end of thevideo. Uh, this portion of the video Ilike to reserve for praying for you. Youare a person. Well, actually, I can'tsay that anymore. It might be AI. Idon't know. If you're a person, this isfor you. Uh, you have a life. You've gotgoals. You've got things you're tryingto do. You're watching this videobecause you want to learn something new.Um, I want to pray for that. I want topray for your life. This may not be yourthing. Totally cool. You can click off.That's fine. So, I put it at the end ofthe video. But if you stay, thank you.The reason I'm doing this is because Ido believe in the power of prayer. Thereason I do anything on this channel tohelp people or all the things I'm doingis because of Jesus. He saved me. He'sempowered me to do everything I'm doing.And I don't know what your beliefs areon that. Regardless, I just want to prayfor you. That's it. So, let's do it realquick. God, I thank you for the personwatching this video right now. Um, Ithank you that they are excited abouttech and their lives and wanting to dosomething cool because otherwise, whywould they be here? I pray that youwould just fill them with joy about thefuture, that you remove any anxiety,that you give them peace, that you woulduh bless their families and let theirfamilies be healthy and strong. And ifthere's anything going on in their livesright now that are really hard, that'sjust really hard to get through. Umdivorce or just any kind of sin that'sreally bogging them down. Jesus, I praydeliverance over them right now that yougive them uh a path forward and just letthem be excited about their career. Ipray you go before them and make theirpath straight, God. That you wouldcreate opportunities for them and thatthey would take these skills they'relearning and do something really fun andcool with them that will provide fortheir families and give them a brightfuture. I pray this over them, God. Andultimately, I pray that all of this willlead them to maybe one day just knowingyou more deeply, knowing you better, andknowing that having a relationship withyou is is the greatest gift, thegreatest thing that there's nothinggreater you can attain apart fromknowing you, Jesus. I thank you for thisperson and uh I just thank you for thiscommunity and for letting us do thiscool stuff. It's a privilege.In Jesus name I pray. Amen. All right.Thanks, guys. I'll see you in the nextone.