rules will occasionallybe broken. That's just how these thingsare. We know that agents areprobabilistic at this point. 100%compliance and everything is just notrealistic and it's not achievable. Sodespite our best efforts, there willalways be some sort of edge casefailure. Although it is getting a lotbetter with time, obviously this is justa trade-off that we have to acceptanytime we're using AI. I mean, AImultiplies our leverage by thousandsupon thousands upon thousands of times,right? But in doing so, it alsomultiplies um accuracy or or reliabilityissues as well. Again, it's one of thoselike even if our human workflows are99.9% accurate, obviously if you runthem enough times, let's say a thousandtimes, these errors compound and thenyou end up with a total process that'sonly maybe 36% successful.[gasps and sighs] Well, a human beingcan typically spot that earlier. Butalso, a human being typically justdoesn't do a thousand operations in arow, right? There'll usually be somesort of check mark or guardrail. Withagents, you could do a thousandoperations like this. So obviouslydespite the fact that like our accuracylevels are still really high becausewe're giving them so much autonomy andbecause at the end of the day they dolack some context that human beings haveand you know a lot of people would arguethey're not as intelligent as like themost intelligent human being. This thingis just going to occur and there's justnothing you can do about it. So I planfor graceful recovery not perfectprevention and I'd recommend you do too.Cool. Let's chat about using theseworkflows. And I just want to make thisclear that this program is both aboutbuilding workflows. Then it's also usingsaid workflows. And the two are not thesame. Building a workflow versus using aworkflow are two very different things.When I build a workflow, I am having myagent essentially be a programmer forme. When I use my workflows, that's sortof DO, right? The directiveorchestration execution idea. My agentis just executing a sequence of stepsthat a previous iteration of an agentbuilt. So these agentic workflows aremostly about the using side of things,right? like building them while isimportant and stuff like that, it's justa very small part of actually living inyour ID and getting things done. And tothat point, I have an important thing tosay. The interface to everything is nowjust a text box. So my actual day-to-daywork occurs almost entirely now througha single text box. It occurs through,you know, anti-gravity or Visual StudioCode. And I just have the agent doeverything that I have createdpainstakingly over the course of thelast few weeks using the tools that I'veI've set up. So, I'll have it do thingslike generate, you know, my YouTubethumbnails. I'll have it do things likeuh generate scripts and stuff like thatthat I could send to people. I have itdo things like generate pitch decks sothat I could send to people that areinterested in working with me, generateproposals. I do things like analyze mytranscripts and stuff like that. But Idon't do it in individual softwareapplications, okay? I don't do it inFireflies and Google Drive and Panda Doeand, you know, Quiller and all theseother platforms. I literally just do itall through a single text interface. Andthis is just the way that high leveragework is now going to be done, at leastuntil we come up with a betteralternative, which may come in sometime. But I wouldn't hold out on it. Fora lot of people, a single text box feelslike a downgrade. Cuz if you think aboutit, we've spent decades learningsoftware through visual interfaces andmenus. And GUIs, graphical userinterfaces, are basically the currentstandard. If you contrast that to typingand stuff like that, a lot of peoplealso consider it really slow and toughcompared to, you know, clicking buttonsand whatnot that they're used to, right?Sometimes people type at 50, 60, 70words per minute. I have some familymembers that can't type it more than 20words per minute. Obviously, that isvery slow relative to dragging stuffaround and clicking buttons and stufflike that. So, there is no obvious rightway to do this. It's very open-ended andunfamiliar, and I'm sure eventuallywe'll converge on like a really coolvisual thing that combines the best ofboth worlds. But there are ways to makedoing a lot more natural and efficient,which I want to talk about. The first isjust to switch to using voicetranscription tools. In case you guysdidn't know, you can now just saywhatever you want to your computer, andthere's like a 99.9% chance that it willunderstand that and be able to turn thatinto text. The reason why this isvaluable is because the average typingspeed is 50 to 70 words per minute,which is really slow bandwidth. Theaverage speaking speed is 150 to 200words a minute, which is three to fourtimes faster. You guys have beenlistening to me talk at between 150 to200 words a minute on average. SometimesI'm a little bit slower, maybe aroundlike 130. Other times I'm a little bitfaster, maybe around 220 or so. But ingeneral, I'm speaking maybe three timesfaster than most human beings type,which is very, very important. Nowadays,models are pretty smart. So, you don'teven need to really organize yourthoughts in a hyperspecific way. Likeback when I was using GPT3, okay, backin the uh the good old days, you had tobe extraordinarily precise and concisewith your prompts because even 10additional tokens could really reallyscrew up the intelligence and thesteerability of the model. Nowadaysthough, I could have prompts that arethousandword text dumps where I just I'min my car driving somewhere. I click thevoice transcribe tool and then I justtalk. And it does a really good job atturning that into something useful. Thehighest bandwidth way of communicatingwith computers, at least right now, isthe following. Nobody really talks aboutthis, but you transcribe your text asinput, which gets you to route 200 wordsa minute. So my input bandwidth is now200 WPM. And then you don't like have itsay stuff to you like you do with like Idon't know the chatbt voice call orwhatever. Instead, you just read as theoutput because most people can actuallyread between 300 to 500 words per minuteif you skim. And most people will skimin some way, shape, or form. Some peoplecan go much faster to like a thousand.And in that way, you have like 200 wordper minute input, 1,000 word per minuteoutput, you know, in terms of skimmingto relevant materials. Um, the old wayof doing this is like 50 to 70. And thenif you're doing voice, it'll be, youknow, like 200. So, what we're doinghere is we're basically quadrupling ourinput um at at at both sides of this. Sothis is like a 3 to 5x and this is likea 5x at least. So maybe like a quadrupleI would say. Um I would recommend justdoing that moving forward. It's waysimpler. The only situation which Iactually type stuff now is if I likeabsolutely have to because there is somehypersp specific file that I need toreference on my computer somewhere. Andeven then I'll usually just like copythe name and paste it manually. Fromhere on out when I say the word promptassume I'm just generating all this withmy voice. And then you guys have alsoseen me do this on multiple demos. Butum I will proceed to assume that youguys know that. How do you actually useworkflows? Well, it's really simple.Hopefully you guys have already seen. Wejust ask for it. There's no need tomemorize the exact name of thedirective. Agent typically knows thedirectives exist because we've includedthat in our system prompt and it'll scanfor matches automatically. You do ofcourse need to provide some data umspecifically that your directives inputschema requires. So if your directivesays, hey, you know, I want you toinclude uh I don't know the name of aperson or something like this and weneed the name of the person in order togenerate some form of proposal orsomething. And if you say, "Hey, just dothe thing." It'll look at it and belike, "Hey, you're currently lackingthis input." So, like, "What's the nameof the person you wanted? Let me knowand I'll I'll create that for you."Really, this is just like ordering food,right? Kitchen needs to know what dishany modifications or whatever. You can'tjust say, "Hey, get me food." You needto be like, "Hey, you know, can you canI have like the hamburger with a side offries, please?" Like, there's a level ofspecificity here. You don't have to gosuper deep, but you also don't need tooverthink it. I'm pretty specific withmy requests that I know have specificinput methods. So, like in the case ofgetting me some leads, I can absolutelyjust say, "Hey, get me some leads today,obviously, it's going to ask me a bunchof questions and then I'm going to haveto like feed those questions in and thenI can kind of mess about with mydirective, right?" So, I much rathersay, "Hey, scrape 200 HVAC companies inTexas, then verify the emails,personalize them, and then give me theGoogle sheet." This takes, you know, 2seconds longer than the first version,but because I'm at the helm of the ship,I'm able to steer it into a much uh morestraight line direction to what it isthat I want. The more steps you put inan AI's hands, the more chances forerrors that it has. Remember that errorrates multiply. If I had, you know, a90% chance doing the first thingcorrectly and then a 90% chance doingthe second thing correctly, um, youknow, I would have a, I don't know, Iguess a 081% total chance. Ideally,we're dealing with higher rates, but letme just show you how that transforms,right? If I give it everything I needimmediately, I now have this is a 90%.Let's say, you know, in the first one, Isay get me leads. Well, what happens? Itinterprets my request as saying, okay,we need to get some leads, so let's goto the directive or whatever. and thenit says we don't have any leads. HeyNick, can you send me some leads? Andthen I need to provide it leads and thenit goes through another process and thengives me a total uh success rate oflet's say 81%. Here if I just say youknow hey scrape me 200 HVAC companies inTexas, verify their emails and so on andso forth. [gasps] It's only been onestep. So I've significantly reducedwhat's called the compound probabilityof the error. When you're specific, youalso reduce the back and forth. Itlowers your overall failure risk andthen it's just faster. So I just do itfaster that way. If you're not surewhat's available, you could just asklike, "Hey, what workflows do I have?"Um, you know, eventually after youdesign so many directives, it does startbeing a little bit overwhelming for bothyou and the model. And obviously, thereare some strategies that you could useto help accommodate that, like subagents, which we talk about later. Butfor now, just know that, you know, ifyou don't know what's available,absolutely just ask your model. Youcould ask the model to do things likerefactor your directive base. Hey, areany directives that look really similar?Are there any executions that lookreally similar? I want you to run acomprehensive refactor and everything tolike group them in ways that make sense.You obviously have a lot of freedom todo this in your own. Now, for reallycomplex workflows, I'll usually justpaste in the context rather than typingit all manually. Like um you know,rather than asking the model to do somesort of like Fireflies API request forme, I'll just like paste my calltranscript directly in. Takesapproximately the same amount of time.It's just this one is like exact andthere's no room for error. Anotherreally common request that I typicallywill do is I will like go to a websiteand I'll just like command all copyeverything and then paste it in themodel and be like, hey, you know, buildme a proposal with this website orsomething. Obviously, I could have it,hey, HTTP request this link and then itgoes through that. But, I mean, it's thesame thing, right? It takes me the sameamount of time to do that versus this.So, from the model's perspective,doesn't matter. Everything gets insertedin context the same way. Can be a bigtime saver since HTTP calls and then APIrequests and then accessing databasesand stuff like that can take some timeto set up. So, if you're using this as auser, right, you are executing yourworkflows using this orchestrator, youcan absolutely just like co-create withit. You can go on websites yourself,copy paste stuff in, it's no big deal.The next thing I wanted to do is talk alittle bit about how to peruse APIdocumentation with Agentic workflows.So, as you guys remember in a previousdemo, I built a workflow that tookLinkedIn Sales Navigator URLs, fed theminto the service vein, uh, you know, dida couple of other things, and then endedup giving me a big list of leads in aGoogle sheet. So, how exactly do we dothis sort of thing in like a reasonableway? Well, obviously we could just, youknow, tell the model, hey, I want you tobuild XYZ with Fain. But what you'llquickly realize is models will spendmaybe 50% of their time just looking upAPI documentation and another 50% of thetime like running into some sort oferror. Like for instance, if I were touse this API documentation so let mejust go over here then feed this into AIand say something like tell me aboutthis API documentation.The first thing it'll do is it'll takethe link and then it'll try accessing itusing some sort of web search tool.That's what it'll do here. The thing is,not all API docs are created equal, andso some API documentation pages don'tactually include um all of theinformation that we need in order to dowhat we need to do. Some of them don'treturn things the way that we need themto. So here it's saying the page isfairly lightweight on specifics. Nodetailed endpoint schemas, rate limits,or code examples. You need to log intotheir dashboard to add the full open APIspec with the request and responseschemas. But that's kind of weirdbecause we have all the informationright here, right? Well, that's thething. Some of these API pages only loadthrough JavaScript. So realistically,this isn't actually capable of accessingthe API docs. If I said, hey, you know,could you find the endpoints orsomething? It could eventually do so,but it probably wouldn't do so verywell.So I say, what are the API endpointshere? It's going to look for moreinformation. So it's going to look forsome spec to get more detailedinformation about the page. It's goingto run through the same thing that itjust did a moment ago, probably to nosuccess. And here you see it usesJavaScript to render the UI, which meansthe endpoints aren't actual HTML. So nowit's just starting to look and sort ofguess at what the um JSON information isfor the API. Sort of annoying, right?Doesn't actually provide thatinformation. So what else is it going todo? Well, it's going to do more. It'sgoing to start looking for otherpeople's um API docs. It'll startlooking for blog posts and stuff likethat. And I mean like this informationhere, it's not terrible or anything, butif we're clear about how long this takesand then um what sort of resources it'srequiring on our end, if I just typeback slashcontext over here, you can seenow that we've already started fillingup our message um context, right? Imean, you know, MCP is still theprevailing one because this is using thesame um series that we were usingbefore. But yeah, I mean, like messagesare already 1.4%. We haven't even doneanything yet. Imagine if this continuedoperating on its own sort of like loopfor another 30 seconds or so. Hell, weprobably get up to like 3% 4% 5% ormore. And so in order to prevent all ofthat from occurring, um, a lot of thetime for APIs, I will actually just openthe things that I want. So we wantedopen, we wanted get, and then[gasps and sighs] what else did I do?There was like a URL check right overhere. And I'll just copy all of it indirectly.These are vehins API docs list endpointsfor me. So now instead of having themodel do all of that searching itself,which if you think about it is likethat's an additional step whichcompounds error probabilities, I justcopy and pasted everything in whichmeans it's going to get everything righton the first try. It's not going to goback and forth or try and guess atvarious API endpoints or whatever. Ibasically have everything that I need.If I wanted to make a simple API call tothe post endpoint, what would that looklike in Python? Now it's actually goingthrough and then giving me all theinformation that I need. That's prettystraightforward. Okay, great. Let's doit. Now, I should contrast that with afew other APIs out there that areactually optimized directly for AI andlarge language models and agenticworkflows. So, one in particular is theAmpify API and these guys I want to sayare like a leader, but um there areother services that are catching up andthey're doing stuff like this as well.Like obviously I could feed all of thisin to AI via plain text and you know itwould do a good job, don't get me wrong,but what you'll see is that now thereactually are copy for LLM buttons up atthe top of the page. If I were to copythis for LLM, view it as markdown, openin chat, GBT, open in cloud, open inperplexity, it actually like includesinformation forAI models and I mean like this is just amarkdown version of everything we saw onthe page. Because it's marked down, it'sactually already significantly moreefficient and AI natively understandshow to traverse this. So this is a briefexample of like APIs accommodating to AImodels and agentic workflows. APIs aresort of like anticipating that agenticworkflows are going to quickly come andswallow up everything. So they're makingall of their documentation totallyavailable through like very tokenperformant, token efficient markdownlike this. So you know if I wanted tohave it check the um documentation, Iwould actually just copy thisand then I would just saytell me about this API. It wouldactually go when it would um firstaccess the page itself to grab all themarkdown data. And what's cool isdespite the fact that it's a fair amountof text, this does so very quickly. Onceit's done, it gives me a big overview.Then I can also ask follow-up questions.What kind of endpointsare most common?Okay. And as you can see, it's alreadyproviding me a bunch of information. Sothat's pretty sweet, right? You wouldnot believe how much money on theinternet is