needs to add theCSS to the project as well, which isdoing inside Telegram, too. Are youcontrolling everything with your steps?That's the secret, mate. Didn't want totell anyone about that. Dean AI says, "Ifind it hard to describe something. I'mnot entirely educated about AI, forexample." Um, animations. So, gettingClaude to do it would be massive. Yeah.So, you can just use um Remotion insideClaude. Ask it to install Remotion andthen it can do animations for you. Canit watch a YouTube video and comment onit? I'm I'm pretty sure it could if youwanted to. Wouldn't recommend it though.I think stuff like that could get tracedpretty quickly. All right, so it'simproved the CSS now. Now you can see itlooks a lot better. It's added like somenice animations.some testimonials, information about usand who we are, blah blah blah. Um, andthe page looks way better, right? So,you can see how you can use GoogleAnti-gravity with Clawbot and then youcan have uh Clawbot actually useanti-gravity as an orchestrator or youcan build your projects locally withclawbot and then improve them insideanti-gravity. But basically, they canboth work together. Pretty simple andeasy to set up. You can get anti-gravityfor free and you can also run clawbotfor free if you are using their GitHubalong with integration because runs APIslocally which means you can use clawbotlocally for free. Nice. Farhan says doesthe model we choose really determine theperformance? I saw use claude and whatif it uses a free model like a llama?I'm actually going to test that but forsure like the the API that you use istotally it makes a huge difference. Hugedifference right? So for example, if I'musing Claude Opus 4.5, that's likeprobably the best API in the world whenit comes to AI, right? And so Claude botis going to be way smarter than if I usesomething like uh GLM or Miniax tooperate it, right? And which is cheapermodels but not quite as intelligent andnot quite as good at like browsercontrol and stuff like that. So for surewhen you're using these APIs, if youpick something that's more intelligent,you're going to get better outputs.That's it's just as simple as that. Sothat's basically how to use Claudebar asyou can see. Um if you want to get allthe documentation, if you want to getthe tips, if you want to connect with mepersonally, get all the stuff inside AIprofit boardroom link in the comments indescription or go to apiprofitboard.com.We actually have a 3-hour course plus afull setup guide and the copy and pasteinstructions for using clawbot. And ifyou struggle with anything, you can askinside the community and get help andsupport whenever you need it. Plusinside the calendar, we do four weeklycoaching calls, so you can actually jumpon a live call and get the support thatyou need. And also it comes with all mybest trainings. So if you want to gofrom like complete beginner, maybe youdon't have much experience with AI, thenyou can go from beginner to expert injust 5 weeks. Plus you learn how tobuild your first AI agent in under 5minutes. If you want to get my bestplaybooks that I use for my business,like for example, shorts, avatar videos,screen shares, newsletters, Twitter,automate my emails, you can do that withthe playbook section here. If you wantto get more clients for your agency,then you can check out the agencycourse. If you want to rank number onewith AI SEO, you can actually learn thatright here. And also, if you want to doYouTube AI, you can learn that righthere. All right, pretty simple and easy.So, feel free to get that link in thecomments description or just go to aprofit boardroom.com. Yobi says, "Iheard Claude was in violation of termsservice." Yeah. So, if you're using theAPI, you can just use a different APIprovider, right? So, if if you don'twant to use Claudewith Claude bot, then you can just use adifferent API provider. So that way youstay compliant and and you make sureyou're not you're not doing anythingbad. Francis says it's impossible to useOpus 4.5 through anti-gravity has nocapacity even with Google Pro. Yeah. Sothe way that I did it as you saw todayis like we just used Claude bot which isconnected to Opus 4.5 and then insideanti-gravity I'm actually using Gemini 3flash. So inside anti-gravity itself I'mnot using claude opus but using clawbotthat has opus and clawbot can operateanti-gravity. So that's how it works,right? That's how you set it up. L says,"How can I integrate my real estatebusiness into this?" So you could use itfor creating landing pages, mini apps,uh lead magnets, etc. Um with Claudeb orit could, for example, like createavatar videos or whatever you want foryou, right? Um if you want to get moreplaybooks on that and tips with that,you can join the AR profit boardroom.And also, if you type in real estate inthe search here, there's actually 65members who are doing real estate withAI, too, right? So you can see everyonehere that's doing real estate with AI.So, if you want to connect with loads ofpeople who are using AI in the realestate industry, if you want to get onmy best playbooks for using real estaterelated AI automations, just check outthe AI profit boarding. T says, "HeyJulian, good to good see you." Good tosee you, too. Today, we are going to berunning through exactly how to useClaudebot with a bunch of other models.Now, if you've never seen Clawbotbefore, it's probably the most powerfulAI agent I've ever used. I actuallygenerated the thumbnail for today usingClawbot. You can see inside the chat.So, we've got it inside Telegram set upand ready to go right here. It canbasically do anything. I've not seen itstruggle with anything so far. It cancreate thumbnails. It can generateaudio. It can create AI avatar videos.It's pretty insane what it can do. Canalso emulate your voice using 11 Labs.It can control your browser to controlyour desktop, etc. Right? It can do allsorts of things. Now, one of the coolthings I want to test out today is thisClaudebot browser extension setup. So,I'm excited to try this out. I think youcan also use it with anti-gravity toofor Google. And also, I'd be interestedto test it out for using it withsomething like, for example, SEO aswell. So, we're going to test this out,see how it performs, try it out today,and then we'll go from there. So, thisis the Chrome extension method, as youcan see. Let's see how we can set thisup. I'm actually going to do is try andset this up directly inside the chat.So, I'm going to plug this intoClaudebot like we can see. And then weshall say, okay, set this up. See if wecan do it here. J says wire only on Mac.So, you can actually once you'veinstalled it, you can use it anywhere.Anywhere with Telegram or WhatsApp orwhatever you want. Serial says nice. So,let's try this out. We have to run theinstallation. Let's see if we can do itdirectly here. So, we'll go back toClubbot here. We might have to do itinside the terminal if that doesn'twork, but we'll try it out now. see howit performs. All right, I think it'sactually got it inside here. Now, wehave to go to Chrome extensions, thenenable developer mode, which we've gotenabled in the top right over there, asyou can see. Then, we're going to clickload unpacked. Ah, nice. That should beset up now. We'll save that. Then we'vegot clawbot set up now. Now, if we sayinside the browser, if we say insideclawbot, it should be able to controlusing the Chrome extension. Let's try itout now. So we go inside here and we'llsay okay what can I do with the Chromebrowser extension. This is Apple on theMac. All right. So it should be able topost to X now for us. I think if we sayokay post this to X on Twitter. I saycreate a quick post about Claudebot andhow cool it is via X using the Chromeextension. Let's see if it can do that.We have to attach the tab. So it has tobe this one. We'll say now do it. Soit's navigating to X like you can see.So it's opening up X here. We can alsorun this inside I believe insideanti-gravity. So I'm going to try thatinstead. See where we get up to. DJBoomman, can it handle GitHub,Superbase, resend for sale, Squarespacefor five, Koji project? I think it wouldstruggle with using anti AI studio, butit could handle all the rest, right? Soyou could easily set up the MCP and thetokens for everything else, but I thinkit would struggle using AI Google AIStudio directly, if that makes sense.All right. So, we're going to try usingclawbot inside Google anti-gravity. So,let's try that instead. So, go insidethe terminal. Go back to theinstructions. Let's see if this works.So, it's enabled it now. Then, it shouldbe able to use anti-gravity now with theaccount. Then, we have to set our model,which we've done here. Evangelist says,"When I linked it on WhatsApp, it gottagged as spam. Anyway, you can help meon this." I'm just using Telegram. Ididn't want to use it with my mainWhatsApp account cuz I thought might bea bit dodgy there. So I use it insideTelegram instead. So let's see what wegot here. So let's try this one. We goinside the terminal. Does it have fullcontrol of Chrome browser? It can do ifyou use the Chrome extension. So if wenavigate to this now, let's see. Allright. Nice. So we've got anti-gravitylinked to clawbot now. Let's try thisout. See if it opens up Googleanti-gravity. Interesting. Where can wefind like communities for guides? So youcan check out the AR profit boardroom ifyou want more guides and help onclawbot. This is my community that helpsyou with AI automation with Clawbot. Sofeel free to check that out. Link in thecomments in description. Is it poweredby OpenAI? So you can choose whicheverAPI you want to use with it directly.Have you tried with WhatsApp, Slack,etc. in addition to Telegram? Which willbe best? I don't use Slack and Iwouldn't use my WhatsApp just because Idon't want to show that stuff on a livestream etc. Especially with my phonenumber plugged in there. What it does itcan do all sorts of things. So forexample here if we say okay create avoice note about a live stream onclawbot create a thumbnail about itcreate a video with remotion with alobster animation plus generate a socialmedia post and an AI avatar video. Itwill do all of those in one go. So wecan do it all with clawbot powered byMiniax. Right. Can Claude help withinstallation? Yeah. So that's what Iused to set this up. As you can seeright here, we used Claude with Clawbotand it would do everything right here.They call me Hollywood says, "It'simpressive what you can accomplish andshare with us. How can I stay up to dateand make complicated tasks look as easyas you do? How do you keep yourselfinformed?" So I keep myself informed inthe AI profit boardroom. This is my AIautomation community. So this is where Ilearn about stuff like this. And you cansee all the new posts like peoplesharing what they're doing with Clawbot,how it works, etc. And this is the bestplace really. It's got all the latestnews. I do weekly updates in there. Youcan always direct message me as well ifyou're struggling with anything and justsend me a screenshot. But yeah, that'sbasically how I would do it. Now it saysI need a full tutorial of how to setthis up on Windows anyone. Yeah. So ifyou check out the AR profit boardroom,you can actually learn how to seteverything up inside the AR profitboardroom. Just go to the classroom ortype in clawbar at the top and you canlearn how to use this stuff directlyinside there. That's probably the bestplace to learn it. So let's go back toClawbot now and see what we got. So it'sworking on that. I also want to testrunning it with O Lama directly as well.And we can even edit videos with it aswell. So it's doing all the tasks now asyou can see. Creative Chris says I'vebeen playing with it for the last fewdays. It's brilliant actually. Two goodcreated scripts from my emails all etc.about the Calpes says once if you don'twant to install it and have it runningaround PC we can still use it online.Yeah, you can just use online instead.Did it take long to use work? Yeah, ittook a A couple of tries and then I'mgood to go now. So, it's a little bit ofpersistence and then it's good to go toget used to working on the treadmill.Can you use Discord? Yeah, Claude usesDiscord. Clawbot. Clawbot is the AIassistant that Siri should have been. Itconnects Claude to WhatsApp, Telegram,Discord, and actually automates yourbusiness. We're talking emailmanagement, browser control, YouTubescripts, dashboards, all running on aVPS. 4,000 developers are alreadyobsessed with this thing. I'm going toshow you how to set it up and buildthree automations that will save youhours every single day. All right, let'stalk about Claudebot. This thing isdifferent. Most AI chatbots just sitthere and talk to you. They give youanswers. They write stuff, but theydon't actually do anything. Claudebot isthe opposite. It's an AI assistant thatconnects to your actual tools andactually automates your business. Andthe best part, it's completely free andself-hosted. You control everything.Here's what makes this crazy. Claudebotwas built by Peter Steinberger. Hereleased the latest version on January15th, 2026. It's gotten 4,000 stars onGitHub already. Solorneurs are using itto build dashboards, write YouTubescripts, manage their entire inbox. Allof this runs on a cheap VPS. Some peopleare running on the AWS free tier. It'sinsane. So, what is Claudebot exactly?It's open- source software that connectsAI models like Claude Opus to yourmessaging apps, WhatsApp, Telegram,Discord, Slack. You message it just likeyou'd message a friend. But instead ofjust chatting, it actually does things.It can control your browser. It canmanage your emails. It can run Chromejobs. It can build entire workflows. Andit remembers everything because it haspersistent sessions and memory. Thedifference between this and Chat GPT isnight and day. Chat GPT lives in abrowser tab. You ask it questions. Itgives you text. That's it. Claudebotlives in your messaging apps where youalready spend your time. And it doesn'tjust give you information. It takesaction. It automates. It builds. It'slike having a developer on call 24/7.And here's the privacy angle. Becauseit's self-hosted, your data never leavesyour computer or your VPS. Nothing goesto some random cloud server. You'rerunning Claude locally or through yourown API keys. Complete control, completeprivacy.For anyone running a business, this ishuge. You're not trusting some companywith all your sensitive information. Letme show you what people are buildingwith this. One soloreneur built acomplete business dashboard in minutes.It pulls data from notion, your Spotify,Google Analytics, everything. Anotherperson automated their entire inbox tohit inbox zero every single day. Anotherperson generates YouTube scripts andpushes them straight into Obsidian fortheir video production workflow. Theseare real automations solving realproblems. Now, let me walk you throughhow to actually set this thing up. It'seasier than you think. First, you needNodeJS installed. You need version 22 orhigher. If you don't have that, goinstall it. Takes two minutes. Then youopen your terminal and run this command.mpm install-g claudebot latest. That'sit. You've installed Claudebot. Nextstep is onboarding. You run claudebotonboard-install-Damon. This launches a setup wizard.It's going to ask you a few questions.First thing it asks for is your API key.I recommend using Anthropics Claude. Youcan use OpenAI or even local models witha llama, but Claude works best. You grabyour API key from the Anthropic websiteand paste it in. Then it asks you whichmessaging channels you want to connect.Let's say you pick WhatsApp. It'll showyou a QR code. You scan it with yourphone just like you're linking WhatsAppweb. Boom. Your Claudebot is nowconnected to WhatsApp. You can do thesame thing with Telegram, Discord,Slack, whatever you use. You can connectall of them if you want. The setupwizard also asks about skills. Skillsare like plugins. They're pre-builtautomations you can add. There's a wholemarketplace called Claude Hub wherepeople share skills, email management,calendar integration, browserautomation, all kinds of stuff. You caninstall these with one command or buildyour own later. All right, quick break.If you're watching this and thinking, Ineed to automate my business like this,then you need to join the AI profitboardroom. We teach you exactly how tosave time and automate your businesswith AI tools like Claudebot. We've gotstep-by-step tutorials, done for youtemplates, and a community ofentrepreneurs. actually using this stuffto grow. No fluff, just results. Linksin the description. Check it out. Oncesetup is done, you run Claudebot Doctor.This checks that everything's workingcorrectly. If it all looks good, you'reready to go. You can now message yourClaudebot from WhatsApp or whateverchannel you connected. Send it a messagelike, "Hey, what can you do?" And itwill respond. You've got your own AIassistant running. Now, here's where itgets really powerful. Let me show youthree automations you can build rightnow. These are practical. These willsave you actual time. First automation,email inbox zero. This is a game changerfor anyone drowning in emails. Youconnect Cloudbot to Gmail using a skill.You set up a simple rule. Every morningat 8 a.m., Claudebot scans your inbox.It categorizes emails. Urgent ones getflagged. Spam gets deleted. Simplequestions get auto replied. Everythingelse gets organized into folders. Youwake up. Your inbox is already managed.You only deal with the important stuff.Everything else is handled for the AIprofit boardroom. Imagine using this tomanage all your community inquiries. Newmember questions get autoans answeredwith helpful resources. Partnershiprequests get flagged for review.Newsletter signups get processedautomatically. You're saving hours everysingle week. Second automation, YouTubescript generator. This one's perfect ifyou're creating content. You sendClaudebot a message in WhatsApp.Something like generate a YouTube scriptabout AI automation tools for smallbusinesses. Claudebot uses Claude toresearch the topic, structures a fullscript, and saves it directly to yourObsidian notes or Google Docs. You caneven set it up to format it for videoproduction tools like Remotion. For AIProfit Boardroom content, you can say,"Create a tutorial script explaining howAI can automate customer support fore-commerce stores." Boom. 10 minuteslater, you've got a full script ready torecord. You're creating content faster.You're staying consistent. You'regrowing your audience without burningout. Third automation, businessdashboard builder. This one's wild. Youtell Claudebot, "Build me a dashboardthat shows AI profit boardroom metrics."It uses browser automation to pull datafrom your tools. Active members fromyour community platform, revenue