Kind: captions Language: en The most common question I get about 3Blue1Brown is, what do I use to animate the videos? The short answer is that I wrote a custom Python library, its name is Manim, so it's all programmatic and it's also very bespoke. What I wanted to do with this video is offer a behind the scenes to show you, one, what Manim is for those who don't know, and even for those who do know, to show a little bit about how I use it and what the workflow is. Now the way I'm doing this is I sat down with Ben Sparks when I was in the UK a couple months ago, many of you may recognize him from his many great Numberphile videos. He wanted to know how Manim worked, I knew a number of other people had that same question, so I recorded the conversation, it's kind of a scrappy recording but we'll make do. And after a simple hello world example, we animate the famous Lorenz Attractor, which is very important in the foundations of chaos, it's also just a fun visual to get into. One quick thing I should mention before we dive in is that there are actually two versions of Manim. So the first has a history very intertwined with the history of the channel, the way I started the project, basically when I was finishing my undergrad, was that I wanted this coding project that would somehow let me illustrate mathematical functions better as transformations, made a super scrappy bit of Python code for that, used it to make the first video on this channel, as I made more videos the tool improved, as the tool improved I would make more videos, and that's just continued ever since. The most recent video I made, which was about holograms, if I do say so myself, I was pretty proud of the visuals in that, and that would have been dramatically harder to do even two or three years ago, but over the last month it was actually kind of a joy to make just because of a lot of the workflow improvements over the years. I've always posted all of the code that I make for videos, it's openly visible on GitHub, and I also made the tool itself, the underlying tool Manim open source. But I don't, as a personality type, really have the constitution to manage an open source project, I also don't really have the capacity for it while I'm making videos, so I wasn't the most attentive to issues and pull requests and things like that, but a community of people who wanted it to be a more robust tool for others forked the repo and created a version that is attentive to issues and pull requests and has better testing and better documentation, and it's called the Manim community version. So it's generally recommended people start with that, but in the meantime I often do make a bunch of changes or developments to my own, over the last couple years I've made it more interactive, more performant, things like that. The reason I bring this up is that what I'll be demoing with Ben is my own version, but you should be aware that there is this divide and that if you want the better documented and tested version, it's recommended to go with the community one for that. Without further ado, let's dive into the Hello World example. It's all in Python. Okay, and on the left is a Python, just a text file essentially with... Yep, so this is, it's Sublime text, I use Sublime, that's a text editor. We're going to be typing some Python here. I guess just as like a basic sense of what it even looks like to have something up on the screen. Let me get something there and then we can talk through what's going on. Here I've created a scene. So all of the scenes that I edit together take the form of a class in Python. And then inside a certain method of that called construct, this is where all the code that renders stuff is going to live. There's objects added like a circle, like, you know, we can add like a square in there too. We're also going to add that square. If I kind of ran all of that, we have the square. How did you just run that? Was there... Oh yeah, okay, okay, okay. So this is what... I think you just waved the magic wand and it happened, right? But you have a shortcut it looked like. Okay, so in principle, if over in this little terminal, it's a Python terminal such that we can call commands on the scene that are relevant. So I might say square.shift to the right, and then that square will shift to the right. And if I call it again, more things will happen. I could also say, you know, what's one plus two, just normal Python. Okay, it's a Python just entry box, basically. Yeah, but it's talking to this. And so while I'm creating a scene, it's nice to have a Python terminal that's talking to the scene itself. And then separately, so what might be nice as a workflow is to say, hey, I've got all this stuff that I'm going to do. Like maybe I want to take square and I'm going to put it to the top edge. And so a common thing that you might do is say, take that, copy that, go over to this, paste that, press enter. And that immediately tests that line. So then it tests that line. But I don't want to do that every time. I don't want to like do it and copy and paste. So instead I have a shortcut written and this is tied to some Sublime specific things. In my case, it's command R, I think the keyboard shortcut I have. It'll copy it and it'll run whatever the text that was copied in there. So you've got a shortcut which runs this code, outputs the visual, immediate check. I just want to jump in with a quick comment here because there's slightly more going on under the hood. Like all things, this is best motivated with an example. So if I pull up a scene from the most recent video on holograms, these can get quite long. So here, the final output was a four and a half minute MP4 file describing diffraction gradings and in particular, this one was about the double slit. It's really nice to have these long scenes because they share a bunch of context and as you're coding, you can kind of reference that context. But the code for something like that ends up being just a big, big, big pile of Python. Lots and lots of code. And it used to be the case I would break this all down into little subroutines, but historically it's proven to be nice as just to have it kind of all in one spot where all your local variables are shared. The thing I want to highlight is that if I'm working on the scene and I'm somewhere in the middle of it, so lots and lots of code has taken place, but we're in the middle at this point, while I'm iterating on just one little section, like here I might want to be able to run the code of this section and see what it does. As you can imagine, you might want to tweak it, you might want to change it a little bit. So in this case, let's see what's going on. We've got some graphs being drawn. This like wave kind of showing the red and blue wave is fading out a little bit. So maybe I could say, what if I don't want it to fade out as much? I want that to only be 0.8. I want the runtime here to be a little different. I want to be able to run that same section, but in order for that to work, when I'm pasting it in, it can't just literally be pasting the code. It has to revert to the state that the scene had at the start. So it's really running this little thing called checkpoint paste, which basically says if the thing that was copied starts with a certain comment, I'm going to see if I've seen that comment before and cached a state of the scene associated with that so that I can run it. Basically it's making it behave a little bit more like a notebook, like a Jupyter notebook. Some viewers might be wondering why I don't just have it all in a Jupyter notebook, but I really like having the scene in a single text file and being able to interact with it through scripts and things like that. But this is kind of like a hybridization between just the raw text file and a notebook itself. We could also have some like text on there that maybe literally says, hello world. This is like a good plan for hello world. Yeah, put that to the top. And that's also something, you know, it's not going to show up on this if we don't have this line. So the adding makes it appear. But it looks like, so this is me naively thinking, when you make an object, it puts it in the middle and unless you then do some two edges or some other movements, it moves it around. Most objects default to being in the center. Instead of adding it, a different thing you could do, anytime you're going to do some kind of animation, there's a method called play. And then instead of throwing in an object, I'll say there's something I want to do to that object. So in this case, maybe I want to write it to make it look like it's being written on And there's a function baked in here. Yeah. Nice. And I could have some parameters and like, hey, maybe I want that to happen a little bit longer, like with a runtime of three. And suddenly anyone who's watched any Manim videos recognizes that effect. Yeah. They're ready to go. That's really useful. Like I wrote that effect and like nothing else uses that particular effect of having the like edge come on and fade in. It's pretty. That's the signature look for it. A different philosophy also with Manim was like anything can transform into anything. So what I mean by that is let's say we've got this text. I might say, hey, I want to take the the H of that text and then I'm going to make it turn into the circle. So that's going to turn into a circle. So you defined the circle already, but you didn't add it anywhere. Exactly. Now you're going to transform the H into it. Yeah. So if we go to this point, the text gets written. What this line is going to do is say extract the H from that text. And then transform it into the circle. Oh, because the circle was in the middle it has moved it hasn't just put it away. And so these these built in functions like write and transform that we're just seeing. These are the ones that you sort of sculpted to make the jobs that you wanted to happen happen. Yeah, exactly. Exactly. And so a lot of things derive from transform. So usually like it doesn't really there's no pedagogical reason to have like an H turn into a circle. I enjoyed it. It looks nice and we can, you know, we can maybe make it a little bit slower. I mean, I have other questions like it didn't just transform. It looked like it had it was eased. There's all sorts of nice smoothing functions going on. Oh, yeah. OK, so let's play with that. So let's let's play with the transform. So here notice like the H is shrinking and the circle is growing. I don't actually want that. So when I extract the H, it creates a group of all of the H's that it found in this text. So if I take the first element of that, it'll have a thing of it. This is uglier than it needs to look. But if I want to use a matrix, it's like there's a hierarchy where you might have groups of objects like this whole text is a group of characters within. So if I just want the first character, actually a simpler way to do this. It's very dumb. I'm going to take the first character. So the zeroeth element in that Python list, then the actual points data of that H. That's fun. OK, right. So instead of taking the characters, just got the geometrical. Yeah. And so the smoothing there, there's an attribute I call like the rate function and it defaults to a thing called smooth, which just looks smooth. But if it's not the classic smooth step sort of profile, basically, yeah, it's a cubic bezier. I think that it'll be like a smooth step. But if it was linear, then just notice it's a little jerky. This will be easier if it's a runtime of one to see. It's like, yes, jerky start, jerky stop. Sometimes you want that. Yeah, sometimes you don't. This will come up for us later, actually, is only this to be linear when it defaults to smooth. I'm really excited to see that because it's those details that make the difference from like I've made something move to I've made something look good. Yeah, yeah. I really making that easy to do. It's a big part of what my name is doing, I think. We mentioned let's let's do a classic piece of sort of recreational interesting maths that a lot of people heard of. Yeah, I was like, I've never plotted a Lorenz attractor. And that was that was why I suggested. For those of you who don't know, the Lorenz attractor is this very bizarre shape that came up in the early history of chaos theory. Ben and I do talk more about it. But what you need to know is that it comes from a set of differential equations in three dimensions, which basically means if you have a point somewhere in 3D space, there's this set of deterministic rules that tells you how that point should change at a given moment in time. And what happens when you try this for a variety of starting conditions proves to be very interesting as you'll see. It's really nice fodder for animation. And if you want to learn more about it, I'm pretty sure there's a great Veritasium video on it. But also one of my favorite books, which I think I actually should have up here. Yes. OK. So one of my favorite books by one of my favorite authors, James Glick, describes, you know, kind of how this came about and the role that it had in early chaos theory. All of that's by the by. But some of you all want to know. So I figured I'd share. I guess maybe one thing I should mention before we dive into this. This is all in 2D. But the points are actually all in 2D. Whoa, that's a bug. This is a rendering bug, is it? Yes, actually, that's it. OK, there's the thing I was playing around with on the low level rendering recently. I know what's going on and why that's happening. And there's a dumb way to fix it, which is to. Yeah, just don't don't don't worry about that. Fun to see the back end. Don't worry about that. Sometimes I go and I try to make the rendering nicer. And then so that was that was always three dimensional. We just happen to be looking at everything's always through. So for example, if I add 3D axes, then it's like everything exists by default on the X, Y plane and just like ninety nine scenes out of one hundred. I'm just doing it in 2D because pedagogically you want it to feel like a blackboard. Only go up to 3D if you really need to. Now we really need to. So for the Lorenz Attractor, our setup, I just have some like axes with some coordinates around what we're around what we're going to want to be in. Actually, I'll be very honest with you. The way I started here, I went to chat GPT. What you want to do for the math underlying this is to basically feed some software, a differential equation and an initial condition and just say, how does this initial condition evolve? Obviously, people will have built software packages that do it with something smarter. So I just asked and I'm like, hey, write me a Python function using some numerical ODE solver to find, you know, find a solution of the Lorenz equations. The famous Lorenz equations. Well, you know, I just wanted to. Not the other ones. You know, sometimes I like it. As you've no doubt found, if you're trying to engage with some new library or something, it's just, you know, just kind of a nice way to see what it is. It solves a lot of the protocol issues that sometimes you take three hours to get past. So it's mentioning the SciPy integrate. So that's a nice library and it's got this solve initial value problem function. And then it gives some boilerplate for how to how that would look. And it's using Matplotlib to render it. Abundantly reasonable, but we're using Manim. So just adapt it. Yeah. And so essentially I've got a