there. Let's seeif we can get that set up actuallybecause why not, right? Soif you go inside clawbot here, right?And I'm going to say, okay,how to get you access directly toWordPress with the API. We'll see if wecan link the API directly to WordPress,right? Something like that. And thenmaybe we can take the content directlyfrom Clawbot and post it directly toWordPress. And if we can do thatautomation, he's it's gamechanging,right? That's game changing for SEO. Youcould literally just go from likeWordPress or WhatsApp and then boom,Shakalaki, you're good to go. So, let'ssee what it's got here. So, it sayssetup steps. Um, shout out to affiliatemarketing who's uh posting inside thechat and giving us some tips. Iappreciate that. Thank you very much.So, it says in WordPress admin, go tousers profile your admin account. Scrollto application passwords. Enter nameclaw blah blah blah. All right. Let'stry this then. So, we're going to go tologin over hereand we'll try and set this up. So, thisshould be able to once we've set it up,it should be able to post directly toWordPress. So, we need to enter nameClaudebot. Username Clawbot. We have toset up an email address. So,we'll try that one. And I'm just goingto stop sharing my screen for a minute.All right. So, we've set that up. Nowyou can see here what I actually did isI plugged in the details directly intoClaudebot. I gave it a username, gave ita new password. Um, and then it shouldbe good to go right here. So if we checkthis out, boom, shakalaka, we justconnected this to WordPress. We createdour own SEO agent. And now it you cansee here that it actually can format thepost as well. It looks beautiful, right?And so we can tell it to publish. We cantell it to create. Um, it can alsogenerate images using Nano Banana insidehere too. So, this is this is next levelbecause now what we've got is Clawbotconnected to 11 Labs to generate voicenotes, WordPress to create SEO blogposts. We've got AI avatar videos thatwe can generate inside the chat. We'vegot AI studio to, for example, createthumbnails. Um, it's insane. This isinsane. We just took it to a whole newlevel, my friends. How to configureClawbot with iMessage. Check out theinstructions inside the aircraft forboarding if you need to get some help onthat. Excellent. I'm going to I'm makingthe world a healthier place. So, Iappreciate that. Good for you. Good foryou. I will say it gives you a lot ofenergy. You feel good when you do thosesteps every day. I've been doing about20 30,000 steps a day. I feel fantastic.And it's Garfield says who's who's alegend inside the air profit boardroom.So, thanks Garfield. It says tell it toremember the skill and next time createa sub sub agent to do it. So, let's dothat. create a skillplusnext time create a sub agent to publishcontent to WordPress. This almost feelslike cheating with SEO at this point,right? By the way,if you haven't been following ourresults with SEO recently, it's it'spretty insane. Look at this chart. Thisis a beautiful chart. This is our SEOrankings for Julian Goldie. So you cansee Julian Goldie on the left hand sidehere and then you can see our trafficover here, right? And it is absolutelypopping off my friends. It's poppingoff. If we check over the last 3 monthsand we look at how much traffic we'regetting, you can see we went to 561 aday, 500 a day, right? And this is justby using the the results and theplaybooks from the air profit boardroom.So if you're not using those, you'remissing out. Make sure you check it uhright here. Right. And ask says, "Itried it. It says it cannot access theweb. Can you please explain how we canenable them? It actually worked for mefirst time around, but if it's notworking for you, I would either askClaudebot like why can't you access theweb or check what API you're usingbecause maybe some APIs can't access theweb. For example, if you're using Olamalocally that might not be able to accessthe web right now, you can see Clawbotis creating the skill for SEO in the topleft over here. So, we'll see how thatgoes. Boom. Look at that. It says, "Nexttime you need content published, justsay write a blog post, and publish toWordPress, and it will spawn a sub agentthat writes the content, creates adraft, reports back. Example commandright here." All right, cool. Let's trythis out. So, let's see what Let's seewhat keywords we've got popping offinside Clawbot. Actually, you know what?I'm going to go to Google Trends to seewhat keywords we can find here. Have youinstalled Karen says, "Have youinstalled Clawbot locally?" I I just Iset it up inside the terminal locally,but now it just runs in the cloud,right? It runs via um the API and itruns via Telegram. So I obviously youhave to install it locally somewhere viathe terminal or you can use AWS. Eitherway that you want to use it, all theinstructions are inside there. So if wego inside here, I'm going to type inclawworldwidepast week. Look at that. Look at thatgraph. It's insane. It's insane. Right.Um and then we're going to go over sidehere. What we got? What we got? ClawbotMac Mini. That could be a good one. Whatis clawbot? I like that. All right, wecan do a blog about that. All right, soif you go to Telegram now, I'm going tosay create a blog called what is clawbotplus explain clawbot and create anamazing SEO optimized blog post aboutit. Funnel traffic to the air profitbottom here. Let's see if it can do thismagic. Right, so just to recap, whathave we done so far when it comes toclawbot and SEO? Number one, we createdan article inside Telegram, right?Number two, we published that to ourwebsite and we rank within 12 hours onthe first page of Google. Number three,we set up a new WordPress login andactually fired that over to Clawbot sothat it can login separately with a subagent inside WordPress. We then savethat as a skill so that we can call uponthat workflow in the future. And thennumber five, we've actually taken a newkeyword and we're testing out, okay, canit publish directly to WordPress? So,I'm excited to test this out. Bear inmind like how long would this take younormally if you were using somethinglike if you were using something likeN10 to set this all up, right? It'd bevery messy. It' be timeconuming. Itwould take up a lot of brain power.Whereas you can set this up insideClawbot. And as you've seen today, youjust in plain text explain exactly whatyou need. So this is why we likeClawbot. It's insane. It's insane. Allright. So it says, "I'll ping you whenit's done with the edit link." I'mpretty excited to see that in a bit.Yeah, that's basically how you can setthis up. All right. Now, if you want theinstructions for setting up WordPressand integrating it with Clawbot, here'swhat I'm going to do. I'm actually goingto create a guide with Clawbot rightnow. And I'll put that inside theprofitable volume so you can just copyand steal this whole workflow from me.So, let's do that right now. So, we'llsay, give me a full setup guide based onwhat worked for you for setting upClawbot and WordPress for AICO and thesetup instructions. I'll share this withnontechnical people to make it easy tofollow and put that inside the chathere. Then, I'll set up a separatesection inside the guide called SEOsetup guide here with the 3-hour course.We now have the clawbot guide as you cansee and also you can see now insideWordPress as well we have the articlefrom Clawbot. So it wrote the guide onwhat is Clawbot the AI assistant thatactually gets things done. So Clawbotitself actually wrote this and posted itdirectly to WordPress which is prettyinsane if you ask me. You can see itright here. Um and then we can just hitpublish on that and we're good to go.Right. So if we go to quick edit,change that to publish. Hit update.Boom. that's now published on thewebsite. So if we go to blog, we've gotthe article from Clawbotum just set up right there. Prettyinsane. Pretty insane. And then you cansee it's got the link to the AI profitboarding right here if you want to learnhow to use this. Pretty crazy. So if wego back to Clawbot now, we've got themarkdownguide as you can see. So I will takethat.And you can also see it gave me thenotification saying the blog post isdone too. And you can just tell it topublish if you want. And if you want theguide for setting up Clawbot withWordPress, no problem. We'll put thatinside the SEO setup guide section righthere. So you can just get the copy andpaste instructions directly from me. Asyou can see, pretty simple and easy. Sojust just Rob says just on hopped onplaying catchup and 2x speed and justinstalled clawbot earlier. I'm hoping wecan make some magic happen tonight. Goodfor you. And uh yeah, there we go. Sothanks so much for watching. If youhaven't already, check out the AR proflink in the comments description. Yousee exactly how to use clawbot. We'veproved that actually ranks um to createSEO content. That was incredibly easy.And uh you can check out the whole guideinside the AR boardroom. Just go to theclassroom here and then go to SAPupdates. Like you can see today we arechecking out Claudebot and we're goingto test out directly with somethingcalled Google anti-gravity. Soessentially we've got a clawbot runninghere. It can create like avatar videos.You can create voice notes, you cancreate videos, it can pretty much doanything that we train it to do. But onething that I want to test out with todayis using local applications. So you cansee here, for example, said can you runuh Google anti-gravity locally for me?It didn't quite get it. And then I saidno, the actual application on my laptopand it said done, launched. Boom. Andthen actually open up like you can seeright here. So we can actually get thisto code directly with us um whilst we'reusing this tool. So let's try anotherone. So, we're going to go inside hereand say, "Okay, with anti-gravity,with Google Anti-gravity,please can you code out a website forSEO?" Something like that. You see, it'snow responding.If you have any questions as we goalong, by the way, feel free to ask. Yousee, so you can see here it's opening upa new window and it's created the indexhtml along with the style CSS and wehave it ready to go like so. All right.So you can see here it says done openinganti-gravity created an SEO optimizedwebsite. Here's the SEO features blahblah blah. Right? And if we actually goto anti-gravity, this is the project itcreated. So I actually created a aseparate window for Google anti-gravitylike this. And then we can pull this up.So if we reveal in Findinder, we've gotthe index and HTML dys here. Right? Sothe cool thing about this is it canactually operate different AI codingagents for us whilst we're building withthis. Right? And bear in mind, we'rejust doing this through Telegram. Soit's controlling my laptop throughTelegram in plain English. We don't needto be able to code and you don't evenneed to be able to know how to usesomething like Google Antigraityanymore. And then you can see heredirectly it's actually created thewebsite. So, it coded out this websiteand then opened it up in GoogleAnti-gravity. Pretty insane how easythat was to do. Now, I'd be interestedto know, okay, can we open this upinside the terminal? So, can we getClawbot, open it up inside the terminal,and then get it to to use that directly?Now, before we do that, Mr. Josephsays, how do you get it to control yourbrowser? So, let me show you exactly howthat works, right? If you want it tocontrol your browser, what you want todo is install this extension and it'scalled clawbot browser relay. Now, ifyou want to learn how to do that, wehave a lot of training in this insidethe AI profit boardroom. So, you can seewe actually have a full full 3-hourcourse on clawbot and how to use it uhalong with a setup guide. And if youwant to learn how to set up the models,so let's say for example, you want tolearn how to set up the Chromeextension. What I'm actually going to dois I will take this like so along withthe setup instructions which you can seeright here and I'll put that inside theprofit boarding. It's available link inthe comments description or go to theapiprofitboarding.com and you can getaccess to it right there. All right. Soyou can see see here we've got theinstallation instructions and then wehave the extension and we have a fullfreehour course on clawbar inside theaprofit boardroom if you want to getaccess to this stuff. Right. And the waythat that worksis you would just go inside hereand you can say inside the chat. Okay.Go to Googleusing Chrome extensionand search for the latest AI newssomething like that. Now you can seeit's using clawbot browser relay todebug the browser and that's how it cancontrol your browser. Right? So you cansee now it's controlling my browser.It's connected to chrome and it'ssearching for the latest AI news usingthe instructions from telegram. Right?So that's how you can get it to controlyour browser directly. J says did youinstall clawbot on a VPS or on a localcomputer? So I installed it using uh Macmini. And then you can use it inside AWSas well. If you want to get theinstructions for setting up on AWS,we've got it inside the clawbottraining. It's pretty straightforward tobe honest, and you can use uh AWS, whichis a free VBS to set that up directly ifyou want to use it on there. I actuallywouldn't recommend it, though. I've seenum a lot of issues with people settingit up on AWS directly. So, just becareful with that cuz uh if you exposecertain parts of it, you have to bereally careful. But there are MCPs youcan set up that will protect you onlineum if you're using VPS. I'm just not anexpert on that, so I'm not going to talkyou through it today. But if you wantthe VPS setup details, get it inside theAR profitable boardroom along with thisfreehour course. Sowe've talked about how to get this torun inside your browser and also withGoogle Anti. So it can control yourlocal laptop and it can also controlyour Chrome browser as well. What aboutif you want to set up the rest of it?Okay. So if you go on to here and wesay, okay, how can I use youin my Google Anti-Gravityterminal so that you can see my projectfiles, etc. Then I'll take a screenshotof Google Antigravity like this. Let'sgrab a screenshot right there. Copythat. Go back to Google Chrome. Pastethat in. This is the anti-gravity ID.I'll be interested to know if we canactually access Claude inside theterminal. I think we probably can. Andthen we can start using this to code aswell. So, we'll try that out in a sec.But so far, you can see it's alreadycoded out a website for us using GoogleAntigravity. So, you can not only code,but it can control stuff locally. Um,and it's pretty simple and easy. Allright. So, we can keep chatting here ifyou want to use it alongsideanti-gravity. And it can read or editany file that you're working on. justtell them the path, right? So, forexample, edit the edit index.html andSEO website, right? Or you can actuallygo to anti-gravity's terminal and youcould run clawbot chat like this, right?So, if we go to anti-gravity, then we goto terminal here. We'll plug this inlike that.See if that works. That doesn't workdirectly. So, I'm actually going topaste that back into here and then say,okay,didn't seem to work, mate. Then, it'shaving a little think about it as youcan see. And we could try those instead.But I think the easiest way is like itrecommends using it inside Telegram. Solet's try that instead. Right? We'regoing to say okay in anti-gravityfor this folder, right? And then we'lltake this page which is okay, but we canmake it 10 times better and sayresearch Julian Goldie, find out as muchinformation as you can with it. Um, thenI want you to include some testimonials,some social proofs, some moreinformation about Julian Goldie andGoldie Agency. I also want to make surethat you embed some of his YouTubevideos and just make it as personalizedas you can to Julian Goldie. Make thewhole page direct response style. Andthen we're good to go. All right. So, wegot the project that it's connected toright here that I actually built outoriginally. And I think you couldactually get it to operate the chat aswell if you prefer. So, you couldactually edit the chat over here, too.He does seem to forget context sometimesas well, like you can see right here.So, I'm going to go back into GoogleAntigraphy. Copy this. Lance said, "I'msorry. What did I miss?" So, so farwe've set up um Clawbot with GoogleAnti. It coded out website, opened upGoogle Anti locally um and built thepage itself as well. So, that's whatwe're working on right now. So, you cansee now it's beginning to edit the page.It's got like information um and accessto YouTube. It's included some a link togoldieag agency.com as well. So it'scustomizing the HTML um coding this outlocally for us inside this anti-gravityvideo game boss says I think it forgetscuz it's screenshot. Yeah, I thinkyou're right there. I think like thecontext sometimes it drops. So that uhand it works as a orchestraorchestrator. Yeah, that's it 100%. Itworks as an orchestrator that can likemanage different AI agents, right?Imagine, for example, if we had GoogleAntigrafty set up, but then we alsoinstalled, for example, um the toolkitlike anti-gravity 2.0 as well inside thecontent. Like it would be it would beeven better, you know. So, I'm now goingto save the project. There we go. Andthen I'm going to try somethingdifferent now. I'm going to say, okay,try operating the chat inside GoogleAnti-gravity, the actualchat on the side, which uses Gemini.That's actually changing the CSS as wellas you can see. So, it's editing theHTML structure and then it's going toenhance the CSS latency. So, it willlook better in a minute. You can seeit's already changed quite a bit. Um,and it's added more information insidethe page, but it still