time buttimestamp would be somewhere to theside. So 7:37. So 2 minutes agodiscovery call follow up and all ofthat. It actually uh did all the tasksuh even from the previous task itcreated HTML files.Maybe they'll work in this machine. Butif you want to book and if you want tocheck these files even when you areusing a phone somewhere away from thecomputer I would suggest you connectthis to Netlifiand um you just ask it todeploy to Netlify and give me a link andit will do that. So it was a simple fix.plot code was able to change it. So Ican see everything from the table butit's not actually giving me anyactual HTML files. It is just giving meit says create and animate the simpletime track. Yeah, whatever the task I'mgiving it is just repeating back thesame tasks. Okay, node is full access.Hello. Now it just goes toand this is why you need to use aseparate system because you don't carewhat files that it accesses because youhave nothing personal in it. And imaginegiving complete access to your actualmachine all the drives and foldersand it's one click to delete everythingas exciting these AI agents are thesesystems are we do mention you need to becareful and also I clicked on previewand it started a dev server I thoughtthis is nice because now agent doesn'thave Uh, good stuff. No issues. Okay. Iswhat's wrong with what I fixingautomation is all stable processingresults but tracebut public fix createdreports table updated reports standardto use reports.Yes, I prompted pay to change it. Don'tworry about it. I want you to work on AIlog next. AI log. Whenever you arestarting a task,ending a task, you need to create a taskfor yourself on canban board and assignyourself. And also I need you to add AIlog every 30 minutes like a heartbeat.And alsouh anytime you start and uh end thetask, it needs to show up in a AI log.do that yourself and also updateintegration guide with these details soother agents like Ray can update thattoo. So this is what I want to do and Iwant to go back to my page see ifchanged anything what is open flaw hasto say about it backfield reports uh I'mfixing that now by uploading realuploaded fixed now okay it says it'sfixed now let's refreshum then we go to automations automationsreportsOkay.Chico test drivecyber punk commodor hack. I think what'sgoing on is not a HTMLreportbut umso my redesign prototype also do we havea HTML viewer because whatever theyuploaded doesn't look too good is itbecause of the other files accompanyingfiles that are missing that's why sheonly uploadingindex.html.How do we make sure that he can displaythe fullversion, the actual visually pleasingapp that has been created? So, we go totask automationsor maybe the Pokemon one in the reportstab that has been uploading.So I will approve the plan. While theplan is done, it is a simple AI logthing where we see actual details,actual tasks that has been happening,how many tasks the AI is doing andeverything. I thought it was going to bea simple build, but it went ahead andcreated a bunch of things which is AIlob API section and it also updated andadded to integration guide. So if you goto AI log now online working on AI logsystem integration guide and ratepayment online pulling for tasks. So Ithink this is what Sherlock or log agentcreated. So if you look at uh lockedonline canband task created reportrendered issue diagnosed and also promptgenerated for way to delete all 12broken reports and reupload them. So Ihave this prompt I will copy it and Iwill come back hereand we'll pasteeverything.So the idea is when we go to thisapplication, it has 12 tasks and this isugly. It doesn't have the full code baselike styles.css. It doesn't have anystyling. It is he's free is onlyuploading index.htmlwhich is not enough.So wego back to see what is going wrong.And we are done. Array made changes.Hashiko task fry. Hashiko AI3 equation.This is actually nice. When you look atthis in a actualweb page, they look nice.Andwe have an anime platter. And we havePokemon pixel tuto.And we have herproposal that we've seen everything inone page. Nice. So again there is notsomething like production system but youcan build your intelligence, you canbuild your reports, you can buildautomations following this way. And wealso finished AI log and re re-uploadinginlined CSS Javas from poper viewrendering and it's working. So I'll sayokay let's talk toare you also using AI log on Asiancommand hub? So if it says about AI logthen you will have to give theintegration guide. They say yes. Uhpronoun I can sanitize and make this.Yes. Uh this is the integration guide.So I want this every time we areupdating anytime I update at SQLing thewhole list. SoI should come up with probably come upwith a better way. Maybe section wisecopy is a good one. But that concludesour meeting assistant right. We havethis is for Puji. I think this is doneand it has to move. Cloud code has tomove from here to done.Pro move 4. And what we just built withJane the community has packaged twoskills that do exactly this. The firstone is uh a skill called meeting toaction. You can go through uh everythinghow it takes one meeting and createsaction items. I I think I discussed thisin skill section as well but proposalgenerated and this is something reallyamazing and um really detailed. I justsaid make a proposal, right? But imaginehaving giving all of this to your AIagent. And why is this important?Because this is important. If you lookat some of the articles that I linkedhere, OpenCloud is proving very powerfulfor triggering workflows for mymeetings. And this there are people anduh there are meeting autopilot skillsand there are if you look at ways openlaw has changed my life and uh if youread through the whole thing actuallythere are posts of peoplesending150k proposal on Monday and why is thisimportant this AI proposal generatorThis one takes your meeting notes andbuilds a full HTML proposal. We've seenit, right? But imagine it has fivestyles uh a corporate, entrepreneur,creative, you know, consultant, minimaland it has six color themes and sixcolor themes and alsomobile responsive and print ready, PDFexportable. And here's why this matters.A guy on Reddit is using the exactpipeline meeting transcript to proposal.And he said, I'm quoting him directly.It builds the entire proposal betterthan I ever could. Even creates a feesbased on my value based fee model. Ialmost just have to hit send. And thisguy is sending $150,000proposal on Monday generated by hisagent from meeting notes. That's what webuilt. So we built the brain behindthis. These are shortcuts. So go throughthe lens. And this is really important.People are actually using this. This isnot just theory. It's in production.And then we have agents that we haven'ttouched yet. And uh we have dialog thatis working. Taskboard that is working,automations that are working, hopcenter. Um we need to create one more orthree more if you ask me agents becauseif you look at my flower bodyapplication, we haveum I don't want to go into all of thesebut we have a phone agent. We have aemulation, cold email, lead enrichmentagent and we have bunch of things andthe skill factory agent teams whereteams can work together. Most of it hasto do with claw gold. Not too much forthe open claw agent on this side.But I'm I want to check what we have foronce we are done with the meeting agent.Let's go back home. And we have Alexaphone agent. And phone agent. I'm reallyexcited because without a phone AI phoneuh employeeuh you miss calls when you are busy likeyou spend hours manually doing lead listand you have no transcripts and nosentiment analysis no cost trackingevery call is like a black box and youdon't know what was said and what waspromised or what followups are needed sothat's a lot but think about it you knowspeed to lead is It's important wheneversomeone submits their lead, having anagent that can call them right away. Andwith Alexa, Alexa answers every call24/7 with a custom script. And she runsoutbound campaigns to leadless while yousleep. Every call gets a transcript,sentiment score, action items, costbreakdown, all surfaced on a six viewdashboard. You can check from yourphone. So call comes in and um Alexatalks to the agent and or it can placeoutbound to transcript and analysisdashboard updates. I want to show youwhat we have here. It is so it looks soamazing that uh you know it even issometimes better than what you have inan actual call. So the only thing thatis that needs fixing is it is showing$2300instead of $23.The actual cost is $23 but it's adding alot. So we bore using milisaiin here but you can use uh somethingcalled deep claw. I will show you whatthat means. We can do transcript andanalysis dashboard update. You can picka voice here. If you use Vappy it says 8cents to 12 cents but that is not true.For example, the reason I'm not sayinguh this is not true. You can getactually if you use pipe get pipe chatand live kit you will get these figuresbut with mil also you can get thesenumbers.And the way to get that is getting $200of credit on DeepJ. And uh when you signup, you will get $200 credit, which Ialready do on my account. And um you canuse these API key. You can create an APIkey and go to Millisai.And in milisai,you will havean ability to addyour own API key. And when you add yourown API key, what they will do is theywillnot charge you for the transcription andalso text to speech which is really higharound 3 cents a minute if you are usinglevel labs or cartisia. So you can usedeepgram voices which are good. So thisis Lexa, right? You are a helpfulassistant and I used this voice and youcan use deep cam any deep voices and allof these voices are really good and it'sbasically free, you know, for as long asyou have credits. Uh, and if you look atsome of the videos that I did in 2023,early 2023, I was using DPAM for them.So they have been giving credits likefor as long as I can remember and ifit's a simple thing and it took me youknow last 6 months for demos we use $7or something we don't use it for anactual use case we have other accountsfor that but for demos it's really cheapand then you have this agent right anduh I have the prompt here Alexa AI phoneemployee setup. I will copy this prompt.I will come to my builder agent andpaste the prompt and hit send.And now we are creating another AIemployee in our op center. And it willshow up somewhere here.And I believe I see AI phone employeesetup guide. What video do you like? toadd it to integration guide Alexaintegration guide. So, I need you tobuild a new op center block and umdashboard call log, leads, campaigns,transcripts and analytics.And um I will give you the actual agentsetup as well where you are usingmilisaicombined with Tlex for phone number.set those two up and you createAlexaand the agent that is using Alexawill create the agent prompt anduse metadatatouse Alexa and place phone calls. So itcan be used by a cloud code agent BJI orit can be used by ray open agentand I will give you millise API key andenv file. I'll let you know once Iupdate.So go this is not good and the env fileI will just remove this and uh go tomilisi copy my API key you go to APIkeysis it not possible to so there is no waytocopy itif I don't click this so I already pasteit in the environment variableSo it will be building the phoneinfrastructure with all the analyticsand everything. So we'll just wait andsee. So milless API key is in the env.loand uh agent ID isan next API key. Tell API key. So bothof these case I set in the environmentvariable and the agent ID is here andI'll let it finish. It's almost done. Itactually created the agent. We go hereand uh look for the op center and Alexaphone agent. I have positive, neutral,negative, recent calls. No long callsyet. Call logs,campaigns, analytics.Nothing is actually here. So if we lookatI I'll maybe ask broad code to bring insome previous data. See if you can bringin some um past me data. Add that to thecall logs. And uh I want you to createum two web hooks. One is inbound webhookbook URL and set for lexa.If there is any existing webbook URL,you can go ahead and replace that andalso add end of the webbook URL, end ofthe call web hook URL. So you will startreceiving any call analysis data andeverything. Again, if you see anything,just replace it. I'm not sure if you'rerealizing the gravity of this, howpowerful this is. It created everythingthat I asked so far. And previously topull this off, pull something like thisoff, you need to pay $200, $300 to a SASto create this for them. And also if youhave to you know look at these analyticsand these dashboards and creating thesecustom prompts inbound web hook URLoutbound web URL it's easy now but it'sjust I just have to prompt and I'm noteven going into the fact that you canadd custom functions within the callsaying if a person asks you to send anmail. You can use these functions. Youcan trigger a function like using agentmail or resend. You can send an emailmid call. Maybe I will just do that too.So we are setting up an inbound web hookURL. I'm not sure if you can read fetchpassi calls. Set up Melissa inbound webhook URL. Setting up Melisi end of thecall web hook. So all of that is doneright now. So I will ask okay inboundweb p is donepass this data is simple um so my numberis here already so let I will blot thatlater but call me uh this is me save mycontact as moneyin the leads list and uh call me and uhtry and sell me AI servicesu as subs subscription to Asian commandhub. Uh you can use any prompt. Goahead.So I just made u I just gave a commandto cla gold to see if it cops and u onceit does it will we will answer that andwe will talk to our AI agent trying tosell us the thing that it just builtand it's counting.So if I go to leads do I see my name?Oh, it actually saved me moneyemotionally whileOkay, this is the first call. So, I didrunning into some issues. That isexpected, but yeah, I received it.Hello,>> how can I assist you today?>> Okay,>> what can I do for you?>> Dude, you tell me who who is this?I'm an AI assistant here to help youwith any questions or tasks you mighthave. How can I assist you today?>> Are you not calling for any specificreason?>> I'm not making a call. I'm here toassist you through this trip.>> The call was placed but bunch of issues.The agent doesn't know who I am and uhalsoit is just saying I will I'm here toassist you. So you should receive end ofthe call report. Let's see uh based onthat something is not working. Maybeyou're not passing the dynamic variableslike you should be. So that is stillcool. My AI agent actually called meand we have hi there what can I do foryou? I'm an AI assistant to help youwith the question so you're not callingme. So this there the question and alsotranscripts are here analyticslet's not worry about analytics and allthatweb book did fire post uh 200 okay callrecording and okay let's see edgefunction has two issues prompt and firstmessage aren't passed inside Asianconfig nested Asian config not the toplevel so I don't even have to sayanything. I would have said, "Okay, fixit." That's what OpenClaw expects forsome reason. You would think OpenClaw ismore proactive than Cloud Code, but itis, you know, I'm not sure if it's thedevs or contributors that are workingthis really mellowed down open law thesedays. Open flaw ask permission foranything and everything. You know, youit will ask you, hey, this is done. Doyou want me to continue? Or this is onlydone this part. Even if you tell it togo do five steps, it would say, "Oh, Idid two steps. Do you want me tocontinue?" Even when you prompt add itto its identity, its memory andeverything, it will still struggle tofinish it. So, will this make the phonecall right? Perfect. It will. Uh, we'llsee that. And that is the whole point.And my um plot code has bunch ofactually casing.Hey,>> it's free to hear from you and hopeyou're doing well. I wanted to chat withyou about something exciting. Agentcommand hub.>> Okay.>> AI,>> you're not even listening to me.here to listen what's on your mind.>> So, what's the call about?>> I wanted to share some exciting detailsabout agent command hub, which isdesigned to help businesses like yourmanage multiple AI agent seamlessly. Itallows you to automate workflows, tracktasks, and monitor everything from asingle dashboard with features likemultiple AI agents working together,built-in automations for tools likeGmail or>> Okay, how much is that?Great question. The pro plan is just $49per month and it includes unlimitedagent.>> Okay, I'll sign up. Send me the link.>> Fantastic to your money. I'll make sureto get that link sent over to you rightaway. Just to confirm, would you like meto send it to your email or another way?>> Yeah, email. It's miatgrowthcreators.ai.I'll send the link to your emailatgrowthcreators.airight now if you have any questionswhile signing up or need assistance tothat was nice. So the prompt actuallyworked. We will say something. Hey,let's go one step further. I want you toadd the ability to send emails mid call.So we will need to use agent mail forthis. So, Milis AI actually has afunctions feature. Add a new function.And when the user says, "Send me a linkthat I will sign up to this." Uh, youshould be able to send a custom email,um, whichever agent chooses to add andthe user has to give their email addressor if you already have the lead's emailaddress, you don't even have to askthem. So update the lead that we have ma n igrowthcreators.aiis my email address. Once you build thisfunction, place