updated task or createlogic. Okay, great. Uh what we will donow is we willgo back to property and see if this letsus which it did 9 hours ago. descriptionassigne I want to sendandsave changes.So if it does receive thisin under 1 minute.So after that happened I checked if itis correctly pulling the tasks that I'mcreating and it did not. And when Iasked it to pull the tasks that you'reseeing, it gave me 68 tasks which is nottrue. So I asked 60 of the tasks thatare not in the database to delete them.So the last are deleted now. So I wantyou to deor give additionalimportance or the utmost importance tomost recent create recently createdtasks and the user created tasks. So youneed to pull for that every minute. Sowhen you see your name in the assigneesthat's what you should be working onright away. When I say that, uh, what doyou find it? What is the task that yousee? And what are you checking for whenyou're pulling every 1 minute?Update this with this new info. I shouldhave saidask this question in two or try andachieve this prompt output in twosegments. The first one, what do youhave? What is the current process? Okay,whatever the process is, I replace itwith this new process. But I tried to dothe whole thing at once. We'll see whatwe'll get back.Perfect. Updated and logged in. We havetotal eight tasks assigned to ray zero.None of them currently assigned.So the assignment is not working rightbecause I know for a fact. I assigned ittest task and there should be nine tasksnot eight tasks. If you're only seeingeight, there is something wrong withthat.Okay. Good thing is going to tableeditor and go to tasks and see ninetasks.Yeah, I want to take a screenshot.Look at the tasks table and superbase.I should be I shouldbe able to see what is written insuperbase. Anyway,you were right. I checked the actualsupervised task table and confirmedcoler now uses super as source of truthsame as app it currently decidesto write test taskso are you working on the test taskso next thing I will try to do somethingreally quick taskI just want you to tell me a joke ontelewhat happens if we don't create umdeadline.Yeah, it'll show up without deadline.Okay, quick task. This task it actuallymoved to doing as you can see. And umonce that is done, I think it will moveto done. We can keep um looking at thescreen, but I'm more interested inand started execution.So, while I was waiting for it, I heardthe news that GPT 5.4 came outyesterday, and I've been wrestling hardto find out how to use it for my ownopen flaw. And then I found that someoneactually opened a pull request and itactually merged but theupdate was not out yet. So March 6th itwas merged and the available version isMarch 2nd and March 3rd. So it was notavailable. So I took umthis doesn't require a video but this issomething that you might need in futureif you like something that is going onand you want to try something fast. Theymerged but open main it's already onopen main but it's not really on therelease yet. So if you look at releaseit was 4 days ago and the commit wasmade 6 hours ago or so. So you can waitfew more hours maybe days who knows. Sowhat I did is I pulled directly frommain since it's already merged or ifit's not merged we would have to bepulling that fromthe pull request the branch itself. Soif it doesn't make sense to you, it'sokay if you're not technical.But um what I did was I had to update itin a different way. Not just open clawupdate is not working. So it was stillgiving me the second March version andit's not listing open open AI codeex ismissing. 5.4 is missing. And then Iinstalled it in a different way. And Iinstalled itfrom the main branch. And I did all ofthis. And now I'm going to actuallycheck. I actually did check and 5.4 isavailable now. And I'm just setting itup. Quick start. Use existing values.Open AAI OpenAI codeex. And I will signup with I'll sign in with my account.Continue. And I should be able to seethis 5.4. Now it's right here. Thismodel should be much better experienceand faster experience,easier time explaining and all of thatto my Oh, this is nice. Search MoonSearch has a web search too. Okay, we'llget back to that. Configure skills now.Now, this must be new one. Gateway isnot here. So, thing is I was working onit earlier. It was not giving me anupdate. We will fix it. There is someadditional code that we need to add, but5.4will be much better at this anyway.So onboarding complete dashboardopen keep that tab to control.So I had to just reinstall gateway andit worked perfectly.So cloudy everyonelet's hit stars and see open claw 3.3get codex gbtd 5.4 before basic tokens168 in 35 out cash a hit 1%context around 62for how you say it's yeah 99% left weshould make codeex work so I'm reallyexcited needs attention to t present andnon optionssoI want you to work on assigned taskswith the name Rayand umyou need to do them according to thepriority.Urgent tasks go firstand uh second priority is task creation.Oldest created tasks goes first.I want to stop here for just a minute togive you a bit of context on where weare right now. So we started creatingthis app and the first thing when itcames to the when it come to the taskboard we were trying to do a bunch ofthings. First it did not have thefeature to add these assignees or it wasnot it doesn't didn't have subtasks oreven if you pick the priority there area few UI changes that were needed rightwe askedopen cloud to make these changes andopen plot did make these changes I thinkit did a reasonably good job. The onlyissue that I have with this is the timeit takes to make changes is a lot. Okay.And we are only scratching the surface.And this is not open flaw can be used asa wipe coding tool but it's not itsmain. It's not something that I wouldsay is it its best capability. So whatdo I have in mind when it comes to thisbuilding? So if you remember when wewere discussing about open blockconfigurationespecially the eight layer to eightlayer token optimization stack I talkedabout a concept called you know abuilder and arso if you are following this tutorialfrom the beginning especially if youwatched section two which is which Iwhere I discuss the eight layeroptimization stack I talked about aconcept of builder orchestrator andexecutor so three layer or three rolearchitecture in my workflow right thatis what I'm going to talk about nowbecause that distinction has helped me alot inwhat I'm about to teach you because whenI'm building this mission control, wefinished the integration and uh we arebuilding our own canban board and I wantto talk about what just happened so far.So far you have watched me struggleprompt and sit in the dark while opentakes my instruction goes off to buildand comes back with something thatdoesn't quite work. That's not a bug inthe demo. That's exactly what mostpeople experience. And for me, I'm usingCOEX. And even using GPT 5.4 CEX, I'vebeen facing these issues. Not to mentionpeople who are using regular models thatare not as powerful as Codeex,they will face even more issues. When Ifirst started using OpenClow, it droveme crazy. I'd see people building theseincredible AI systems on YouTube, but myagent kept producing mediocre resultsand breaking things. I thought I wasdoing something wrong, and I was, butnot in the way I expected. So, theproblem isn't open flaw. The problem isasking it to do something it was notdesigned for. So, OpenFlaw is anorchestrator, not a builder. So, it'sincredible at coordinating events,running automations, browsing the web,and managing workflows. But when you askit to construct a platform from scratch,writing complex code, buildingdatabases, wire up APIs,that's not its strength. Yourinstructions would need to be perfect.And even then, the output is a hit or amiss. Even with the best models, relyingsolely on open claw for constructionleads to frustration. I've been there.And most people give up at this exactpoint. And the only reason we were evenable to get to this point is because weused lovable. And what is lovable? Icall lovable a builder. It is a toolthat's made to build. Okay. So am Isaying you should use lovable and boldburn bunch of tokens to get it done? No,you can use any of the tools, anybuilders that we have. So what is thebreakthrough?I have separated the rules. The answeris simple. Use the right tool for theright job. Building tools, you havecloud code, you have codeex, you havelovable, you have boot, you can useanti-gravity as well. These are designedfor construction. They understand code.They write clean tested production readysoftware and you use them once to buildthe platform and then you never touchthem again. You just need to build aplatform for open claw to come in andwork on it. And I already showed you howit works with loable just using the freeplan. We just used five or seven tokens.Now I'm going to show you cloud code andlater I'll even let Codeex clone therepo and build a feature just to provethat it works with any platform. So thestar of the show is still OpenFlow. Thisis an OpenFlow masterass. The buildersare helpers and you use them toconstruct the platform once thenOpenCloud runs the show forever andthat's the system and that's why itworks. So why this matters? Because mostpeople try to do everything in one tooland burn out. They ask OpenCloud tobuild, orchestrate and execute andwonder why the results are mediocre. Andthis masterass separates theresponsibilities cleanly. I can show youa finished application and say, "Hey,Open Claw is doing all these amazingthings." Yeah, on the surface it will,but you also need to look at theinfrastructure. For example, we'll bebuilding a meeting intelligence enginewhich is like an AI employee for yourmeetings, AI employees for phone calls,AI employees for email. The tool itselfis you know the powered by openflowwhichever openlow model you're using butthe platform the UI the you know thefunctionality the ability to send allthe application at the application levelthe build is made by these buildertools. So once you look at the examplewhat we are going to do with the nextfew features you will understand whereI'm going with this. Trying to doeverything with open flaw drove mecrazy. You can create multiple openflaws agents an agent that'sspecifically built forcoding. You can do that but even thenyou have to stay in that. You won't getthe same the same flow the same visualupdates that every step what it's doing.You won't get that when you go withopenflowcloud codeex lovable these platforms areactually made for this exact purpose. Soyou build once with the right tool cloudgoable codex the platform the dashboardthe databases and all of that and youorchestrate forever with opencloud youdispatch task you run workflows youcoordinating with agents and execute ondemand with specialized agents each onetrained for a specific job those arereporting to the orchestrator. So onceyou see it in this way, everythingclicks and the frustration disappears.The system becomes predictable and youstop wasting time asking the wrong toolto the wrong job.And what are these three roles? They arebuilder, orchestrator and executor. Sowhat is a builder? Builder is phase onewhich is codeex, cloud, gold, lovable,bolt. You can pick your weapon. Theseare purpose-built for construction.Dashboards, databases, edge functions,UI components. You build the platformonce with the right tool, then you nevertouch it again. So what aboutorchestrator? So open floor, this iswhat it is made for. It dispatchestasks, monitors agents, managesworkflows, runs automations, and makesdecisions. It coordinates the entireoperation 24/7. It is the star of theshow. And most people has been askingme, you know, man, what is thedifference between an automation and anagent? You're just doing automation. Isee crown jobs. I see nothing differentthan an automation. And it's so funnyfor me the way I started an automationback in 2023.If you look at my tutorials early 2023 Iwas making make and chatboard tutorials.So that was when automation was cool andtoday we work with agents right. So whatis if you if I have to give you like adear absoluteexample that makes total sense for mostof you it's clear automationbreaks. It is like a mindless robot orthink of it like a vending machine,right? If you are hungry, you go to avending machine, you click a button andyou get some chips or a drink oranything that you want from the mendingmachine, you can get it by the click ofa button. So, think of it like anautomation. People have figured out away when you click few buttons, you getfood. That's amazing. and it gotproblem. But imagineyou're hungry and in this vendingmachine there is a chef sitting and youask him custom things. You asked for apizza, you asked him for pasta, whateveryou want. You just make the order andthis chef is really skilled and he makesall the you know everything and givesyou the dish. So that is you know thedifference between using like a buildingmachine to get chips and getting yourfood prepared by a chef with thisintelligent person. Right? So that isthe difference I see now with agentslike open FL cloud code we have theseintelligentagents that can orchestrate and execute.Uh so the phase two which is on demandwe use executors. These are specializedAI agents that can do actual work. Theresearchers, emailers, analysts, voiceagents. Each one has a skill and theskill set to do uh you know proper jobtitle and a boss the orchestratortelling them what to do. So from thispoint on the way we do things is I willbe using cloud codeexfor the building and maybe loableoccasionally to mix and match and thenwe would useopen flaw for orchestrator asorchestrator doing the main agent doingthings and we will talk about theexecutors and AI employees towards theend. Okay, that is the flow. Okay, wheredo we go from here? Now that we havethree roles, the builder, orchestratorand executor, we will be buildingapplications that are absolutelyimportant to make this work. So forexample, we are building canband boardbecause you know where your agents areworking, what they're working on andthey have a place for you to giveinputs, additional inputs. When they arestuck they can move the task to needsinput and you can come in giveadditional context so they can keepworking and it works with open claw, itworks with cloud code, it works with anyagent that you can think of. Sowhat builder you should usefrom this point on any builder tool thatyou use will probably work and it allcomes tovibe coding right so when you are we canuse cloud code which I'm using for my uhcomputer right now and also we will usecodex as an example and if you don'twant to spend on these tools. You caneven use a tool like cursor which ismuch better in some people's opinion.You can get a plan for $20 or you canuse uh Kimmy code or minivax coding ifyou want to stay under $20 or something.And you can even use Google anti-gravityif you want to keep it you knowcompletely free and uh use some Geminimodels to build the whole thing. So thechoice is up to you from this point. Youcan use any tool to build what I ambuilding and everything I'm building isthe infrastructure where agents canlive. mission control, a dashboard, acanban board, whatever you want to callit. This is just the beginning. You areessentially creating a digitalorganization and digital office for youragents to come in and work. That's wherewe deploy our AI employees andeverything. Now, some of the audience atthis point might be wondering, we werenot expecting that. We don't know how touse some of these tools. You're sayingCloud Code, Codeex, and it's all lovableor all of these platforms. We did notcome here for those tools. You're right.You're not. And that's one of thereasons that I said the builder tool canbe anything. Anything that you have usedin the past. At the very least, if youhaven't used any of those tools before,you can still use lovable or bold. Ifyou remember, that's why or one of thereasons I started with love.You get great UIs, you get greatfunctionality, and you just need toprompt and it will build it for you. AndI will the prompts that you are about tosee in the future in the these pages cango or work well with any platform ofyour choosing. So for if you want tocontinue in loable you can but the nextquestion would be hey I already have arepository that I'm working on and wecloned that repository and we areworking on that project as we speak whathappens to that so if you go to ourworkspace and we have agent command huband all of the projects that it'sworking on. So I have this. I take this.I will just copy this and come to yourmain folder and you can paste it here.And once you paste it, whichever toolthat you are using, whether that's cloudcode, codeex, anti-gravity, I promise Iwill stop saying that. whichever toolyou are using right now you can go tothat tool andfor meyou can go to that tool for me I'm usingcloud code and you select a folder andit's the same thing with codeex as wellwhen you open it it will be it will showup something like this or if you want toif you go to for example codeex Let'ssay Codeex. You add a project and you goto your main computer and Asian commandhub and Asian command hub opens. And thesame thing with anti-gravity. Any toolthat you choose, you're just openingthat application up. That's it. Now is agood time to explain your agent better.You ask your agent what it thinks aboutthe codebase.Review the project folder. I review thecodebase and let me know your thoughts.I want to go to cloud code settingsand umin cloud code settings I will bypass allthe permissions for nowbecause we are doing this. Let's goback. And one of the reasons I loveworking with cloud code is I can seewhat it's doing. If we are using forexampleopen claw I will be in this dark youknow I don't know what's really going onwhat my agent is doing but now withcloud code I can see every step of theway what's going on so this is theoverview from