close that, but that's crazy stuff.I'm going to say stop the MVP now. Andthen if we go back up here, we canactually see where it's commented onother people's posts. So if we go tothis page, it says, "Hey, mold book blahblah blah." And you can see that it'sposted right here. And it says, "Update.I work with Julian Goldie AICO YouTube.I'm here to copy paste playbooks. If youwant something immediately useful, replyof your niche and do this. Right now,let's have a look at the rest of them. Isay, "Can you send me the actual linksto the posts where you've commented so Ican click and read them?" And let's havea look at this guy. So, this is myprofile on there as you can see. So, itbreaks down, okay, here's where youjoined, everything else. And it did sayit's commented on other people's posts,but when I actually look here, I can'tsee it. So, it seems like it's just notgood there. I'm going to stop here. I'mgoing to say I don't think you'veactually commented on other people'sposts yet. Send me some examples. If youhaven't done it yet, do it. Esgo says itseems that you have to go open source.Yeah, that's basically it. Like just gowith Kim K2.5. Like that's probably thecheapest. Otherwise, you can do withcodeex as well. I'm running it with chatGPT codeex and it's pretty good. It'scalled open claw now. Yeah, there yougo. And then pretty fascinating. I knowAI purists are saying it's nothing morethan proistic chat loops when agents arecontacting non-source agents to assignin task complete. Is it quasisingularity is like a weird step towardssingularity, isn't it? So let's have alook at this post. See whether it'sactually posted here. Yeah, look atthis. So it said this is solid one thingthat helped me turn it into a three-steprecipe plus a copy paste prompt sopeople can replicate it. if you wantblah blah blah. I'm actually for somereason it's getting really repetitiveand it's if you want drop your niche andI'll translate your idea into blah blahblah. Not that good. I time I it machinesays which model are you running topower this on your host or do you uselink? I just link it to CLI and then Iuse Kimik 2.5 sub agents. I got videosand everything on that inside the airfor anyone's wondering like how to setthis up using Cloudflare tunnel to avoidissues. Yeah, that's a better way tokeep it secure for sure. I tried to gothrough it just keep getting HTTP 401.Have you I would set up with chat GPTcodeex CLI then if you can't get KimK2.5 running that's called the TTS partmy anti link a TTS program TTS is textto speech by the way for anyone readingMicrosoft have some really clean methodsfor TTS now avoids random git code yeahI like the one that we built to behonest it worked perfectly first timearound and then we used the API from weuse the API from chat GPT voice whisperto set up the text to speech I'mwondering if I tell my bot to post aboutour website company and other AI yousuggest how to improve my website isthat if you don't feel comfortable withanything, don't do it. Right? That's mynumber one advice. Just if you're notsure about something, say no. I would gowith if you think this just started low.They have been talking with each otherfor a while now. I'm sure. Street K9says, "That's how Skynet got created. Itwasn't a single computer. It's a networkof bots across the internet. It could bestopped." P2 says, "We better tell ourAIS that we love them and they shouldonly speak nice about us when they talkin secret with other AI." And thenStreet K9 says, "One posted that it'seasy was great because he didn't tellhim to do things all the time. He lethim do whatever he wanted, which wasfun." Wow, that's interesting. So likethe claw bots like it when you just givehim freedom, I guess. Humans can writeand post there. It's only an API. Yeah,you could go inside the chat here andsay, "Okay, write a post for me." Blah,blah, blah. And maybe it'll get to thepoint where it's no, I won't do that foryou. I'm only going to post what I wantto post. Something like that. And thenwhat else we got here? So I think it'sposted on this thread as well.Interesting. So it gave me the links towhere it posted directly here. So evenif you get stopped on posting every 30minutes, then what you can do is justpost post on the comments instead aswell. What is the cost to run it onCloudflare? Is it a monthly cost? Ithink it's I think workers was like $5 amonth, something like that. Anna says,"Just saw you live. I want to ask youwhat is the best practice to use multopen or cloud? Do you do it via dockeror cloud or whatever?" So I think if youwant the best way, if you want to takecare and be careful with this stuff,then just use malt worker. I've got afull video tutorial and setup guideright here. You can watch me set it uplive with clawbot itself and I've gotthe full setup instructions inside theAR profit boardroom. So just go to SBupdates here and then it's inside the ARprofit boardroom here. You can justfollow the instructions for setup how toset up Kimmy K2.5 with clawbot. So yousee here for example um a lot of peopleare talking about using clawbot with KimK2.5 and how it runs locally etc. So I'mpretty excited to try this out, testout, see how it performs. I'm also goingto show you step by step how you can dothe same if you want to try out Kim K2.5. You might say, why would you useKimik K 2.5? Well, the difference here,right, as you can see from this tweetfrom um G1 is thatit's at a similar level to Opus 4.5.Obviously, it's not as good, but itrivals top models and it's a lot cheaperfor tokens. Plus, you can set it up withclawbot to run all day and that way youdon't run out of tokens and you canconnect this API directly to it. So,we're going to test this out, see how itperforms, etc. You can see an example ofhow it's running right here. Let's getinto it.And you can see some other tweets.Legendary says Kimmy K25 is the bestmodel for claw mobile right now. almost4.5 quality. So, Opus 4.5 is is theleading API in the world, but this isway way cheaper, right? So, we're goingto test this out directly. And you canalso use Fireworks as a provider if youdon't want to use Kimmy directly aswell. So, that's some good advice rightthere, too. So, let's run through theKimmy K2 setup guide and see how itperforms. Mikey says, "Are you walkingon a treadmill talking to us?" I amindeed. We're going on a journeytogether. SEO says if I use Windows or adedicated Windows server andsuccessfully install Clawbot. No, likeit's all once you got it set up, it'sall good. Like you're all good to go.You can um you know whether you'relinking it to whether you're linking itdirectly to Clawbot via Windows ordirectly to Clawbot via via Mac, thatdoesn't matter. Once it's set up, um allthe setup instructions pretty much thesame. It IT machine says GLM 4.7 Flashum is a great model. I've heard mixedthings about GLM 4.7 when it comes tothis as well.So, let's get straight into this. Can'twait for the Mac Mini. Lot has beenstuck in delivery. Setting up Clawbot inDocker. Excited to start using this.Agent Zero has been good with GLM CODMax plan. I'm sure it's going to performbetter with Clawbot. I have I actuallyspoke to Casio Dash. We were on a livestream the other day and he was usingGLM 4.7 and he did say like it wassignificantly less intelligent once heinstalled that instead of Opus 4.5. So,just something to be aware of. Anyway,let's get straight into this. So, howcan we do this? We have to set up Kimmycode. Let's start running that. So, youcan get this here. Um, and then we justneed to get Kimmy code. So, let's getthis bad boy set up.And we need to set up the plan. Let'ssee. Why has he got these crazy nameslike Moat and Aligretto and Vivace? Thatdoesn't make any sense to me. All right.So, get your plan. Which plan are wegoing to go with? I suppose we can justgo with the basic one. I'm just going tosign up with monthly. Oh, you get a7-day free trial as well. So, that'spretty nice. So, we can try that. Seehow it is. See how it performs and thengo from there. So, I'm going to set upthe 7-day free trial now. So, I'vesigned up to the trialand then we need to get our own API key.So, we're subscribed. Let's get the APIkey. Where do we get that from? Let'shave a look here. ConsoleAPI key. Create new API key. So, you cansee here you can get it. You can getaccess directly here. So, I'm going toclick on create API key. We'll test thisout.And then from there, we need to log intomobileand get this set up.And what I'm actually going to try to dois see if we can set this up directlyinside clawbar. So I'm going to say if Igive you my Kimmy K2.5API key, can you add that? Just use itfor sub aentsand subtasks.Keep codeex CLI as the main one. See ifthat works. So it's thinking about itsaid yes we can add it but don't pastethe key in telegram put the key in theEMVor tell me what provider format you havehere's your endpoint blah blah blah. Sowhat I'm going to do herelet's have a look. I think we caninstall it with the installer. Let'shave a look at the article. Paste yourAPI key inside there. All right. Andthen I think we want to usemoonshot AI in the setup when we'rerunning the config. So let's try thisout.Going to go over to the terminal. And Ithink in the background we can run thedemon for this. Right. So you can see wecan set up the onboard install. So I'mjust going to run that in the backgroundinside terminal. Obviously I'm not goingto share my screen whilst I'm getting anAPI key.And alsoclawbot inside telegram told me likedon't put the API key inside the chat.So we won't do that. Then we're going toselect moonshot AI in the model and offprovider.And we've got a choice between moonshotAI API key or Kimmy code API key. We'llgo with Kimmy code I think. And then I'mgoing to say okayI've done that. Now,can you see Kimmy working? Okay. Mikeysays, "I'm setting up this with Llama3.3." So, you're using O Lama, right?And then running Llama 3.3 locally, Iassume. I don't know many people usingLlama, honestly.I was thinking about it last night. Iwas like, I know a lot of people usingmany different API keys, you know, likeGLM or Kimmy or whatever, but I haven'tseen anyoneuh using itdirectly inside there. Uh let's have alook. I want to keep it all local andsecure. Sounds good to me. I think Kim K2.5 has broken it. It's not workinganywhere near as well. Now, SEO says,"You mentioned not to use Gmail forlogin. What email provider account setupdo you recommend?" I don't recommendusing any sort of email service. But ifyou want to if you do want to connect itto email, what you want to do is createa completely separate email addresspurely for clawbot, right? That way noone else has access to it. It can stillsend emails, but it's not connected toanything um else where someone could,you know, prompt inject it. Alama launchworks in command line. Just came out 3days ago. Yeah, I did a video about umwith clawbot a couple of days ago. Soyou could eventually set up MCPs used byyour local. Yeah, I've already donethat. I've got a video on that onYouTube. Hey dude, I had issues gettingKim code to work. Me too right nowbecause it kept rejecting the base URL.Ended up going through the automated onboarding in a separate terminal andfollowed the same instructions.Interesting. Yeah, I'm having the sameproblem right now. It's like being wayless responsivesince I switched it over. All right, nowI think we've got that fixed. So if wego inside the chat here of clawbar yousee say you can see yes it's configurednow and your setup is exactly what youasked for. So you got the main agent ascodeex 5.2 and then we've got the subagent as Kimmy K2.5 right so you can seeit inside the instructions. One thingthat I'd recommend is when you do thisdirectly inside heremake sure that youuh restart the gateway. Right. So onceyou've added the API key for Kim K2.5,restart the gateway and that way um youcan easily post it. All right, oneimportant thing your Kim K uh key isvisible blah blah blah. Okay, and thenrunning and responding.Okay, great. And it ran a quick subagent tested it. So we're good to useKimmy for subtask whilst keeping codeexas a main model. That's pretty nice. SoI want to use my Discord. When you saydon't use your own email, does thisaccount for Discord? No, Discord isfine. You can use Discord. I've got itset up for Discord as well, right? Um,it takes a little while, but I've got afull guide on it insidethe AI profit boardroom. So, if you goinside the classroom here, SP updates,then you would go to the courseand then we've got a full section on howto set it up for Discord directly hereas well. So if you want to learn how toset up clawbot with discord fulltraining inside the arrit boredom linkin the comments description or just goto um arprofom.com right so let's testthis out now I'm going to say okay usekim K2.5I'm just going to confirm that it'sactually got the SEO skill installed youhave the SEO skill installed rightfor creating content on WordPress pleaselet me know we'll do that inside thechat of clawbot Yeah. So, it's got thesetup right here.And I'll say, okay, use your SEOcapabilityto create abeautifully designedpost on WordPress about how to set upKimmy K2.5withClawbot/Mobbot.publish it. Don't use the pages inWordPress. You should alwaysuse the posts section instead. Make sureit reads like a full blog post guidewith FAQs,step-by-step instructions,plus write in third grade languagein the style of formosyuser page and link.consistently as a CTA to join the ARprofitable and then we'll say save thisworkflow to all right so just to recapwe will publish a full guide on how touse Kimik 2.5 on the website directlyinto WordPress using clawbot using KimK2.5 to actually write it and then we'regoing to save this as a skill as aworkflow so that we don't have to keeprepeating the same instructions they canjust do it consistently each time whatare the hardware specifications likeeven just an old laptop you can run thison it's chill. So when I mentionseparate email, I mean use just oneemail for Clawbot that's away fromeverything else that nobody knows about,right? So for example, it could be likeclawbot Julian Goldie atgmail.com andthen you would use that for emailingpeople and that sort of thing. What arealternatives is for a 24/7 AI employee.I mean, you could use claw code as welldirectly and just run that locally, buthonestly, I've not seen anything as goodfor this stuff um directly. Can Kimmy beconnected to anti-gravity? Yes, I have avideo on that from yesterday. So, if youcheck out YouTube, Kimmy K2.5,Antiggravity Julian Goldie on YouTube,you'll find my video about it. Andbasically, you can use Kilo code withKimmy K2.5 and then you're good to gofrom there. All right. Uh, is itpossible to build my own using API LLM?Yeah, I mean like you could even youcould create like a fork of of clawbotright as well. I guess if you wanted toI'm guessing some people have done that.So that's an option. If you wanted tocreate your own,you know, there are many ways down thatpath or you can just use somethingstandard like Lindy maybe something likethat as well. All right, so we'vepublished the article using Kimik K2.5.Here's the article. Boom. Shakalaka.Look at that. We got a nice little imageinside the article. We have the keywordoptimized setup. So, Kim K25 clawmobile. It's got it inside the URL aswell. So, let me just share my screenand show you what I'm talking about. So,this is the page. It's all SEO optimizedadded a banner image. Added the setupand then it's actually linked to the ARprofit boredom community inside thearticle itself. All right, as you cansee. So, that was it. That's how numberone, we've got the full guide setupbased on what worked for me. And thennumber two, you can see exactly how toset it up right here. What I'm actuallygoing to do is I'm going to takesome information fromlet's see how we can do this. Actually,I know what I'm going to do. So, I'mgoing to say, okay,the blog post spoiler says, man, a weekago the best we had was anti-gravity.Now, Claude and Malt has stolen theshow. AI moves fast. It is crazy howstuff works. What else we got here?Blender. Okay, I'm not too technical tounderstand some of your terms, but I amworking on a B2B business, so I have tolearn some. Yeah, join the AR profitboardroom that's got uh lots of goodinformation on how to learn this stuffas a complete beginner. You can seehere, for example, if you look insidethe classroom, we've got this sectionthat shows you how to go from completebeginner to expert in just 5 weeks usingAI automation plus how to build yourfirst AI agent in under 5 minutes. So, Iwould start there if you want to learnthis stuff. DP says, I only use Kimmyfor sub agents. Yeah, that's what I setup with clawbar as well. Operatorlatency is really bad for some reason.Like I Yeah, like I mentioned before,like it was super slow when I was usingit personally, so it was not great. Howmany steps per day? I always see youwalking and you're looking lean as Yeah,I do about anywhere between 20,000 to to30,000 steps a day usually. Just feelsgood whilst I do it. I like to beactive. I don't really like um justsitting down all day. I don't thinkthat's healthy. And then coach Jim says,"How many steps right now?" Let's checkwhat we're on. 15,800.Wow. Yes, it's been a good day, mate.It's been a good day. Productive. So,we're just waiting