insertnameRay and emoji.I just clicked save and now you can'tsee with myvideo playingsuccessfully created.I will come back here and go todashboardand click on dropdown. The assigneesdropdown is not working. So my goal withthe entire thing is once the taskassignment and hooks and agent isindependently pickingthings off of this canban board. Thatmeans you can be confident that otheragents can assign work to each other.you know, you don't want or you don'thave to sit there and give commands ifit can pick it up from the board. So,that is the entire goal for this.So, it says it should fix it.And Ry doesn't have a way to know thatsomeone isactually assigning tasks to Ray. Now, ifit works perfectly, it shouldpick it up. And I'm not waiting morethan 1 minute. Is the 1 minute uh pollstill workingfor Asian commander? So, it's been agood minute. Uh so, I asked it. Thereare tasks.Check again.Check the name. List all tasks at three.Can you fix it so it doesn't happenagain? Abend it to your memory orsomething.So when I say append that is like addingmore adding this one extra line to yourmemory. In the past when I was usingopen law I made a mistake of asking youknow add this to your memory add this toyour memory and usually it does itright. But when I was using models likeHighQ or MK2.5,they are replacing a chunks of realmemory actualwork and they're replacing with vagueinstructions and it was notfun. So it says it doesn't won't happenagain. Tell me a joke. Uh send me a jokeon telegramabout AI agentsurgent call.So let's keep the deadline today signand create task.So I will also change this tourgentsame. So we have two agile tasksthat's that one is more timesensitivethan other. Also this part is a bit I'mchecking the live it did not check untilI said I have other tags but you're notpicking it up. So if you look at tell mea jokeopened it. Why did I refuse coffeebreak? Because every time it tried torelax, another task came inblack touch and then it had to circleback just uhso this isstuck in a loopwhich is bad. I need to fix it.And you are stuck in a loop. I've beengetting text aftertext about a joke. Once the task isdone, you need to move it to done. Also,let's see why it did not create acanban.You just stick toher priority work should be immediatelybegin. Starting taskis top priority.Let it done now. So if we go here, it'snot moved to done. So again, let's playour telephone.Go back to cloud code and explain.This is the ship. So nine out of 10times if is open lawusing the wrong API call and um thewrong API callit is if you're using a good model thereis a probability that the documentationitself iswrong. So I made the changes I asked itto restart the dev server. I disabledthe confirm email. Say your Asian sidejust update to environment variables.Okay, it should work now. You should beable to move the task.Yeah. Testmoving the task doing to needs input.Okay. If you search, they go here andthey flash.Did it another irrelevant task?Okay. And telephone.I know this is tricky and it's taking along time. And that is how I was able tobuild my original application as well.There were issues but I was able to getto a point. Now my agents give work toeach other and deliver on projects.So Asian sends needs input underscorewhat the column V4scores.So I go backgo back and try now try now try now. Asyou can see bunch of things were fixed.So root cause was tables column E withlowerase values not column name. Andthen edge functions B5 uh is deployedwith fixes and also all five operationsverified varand um is the integration guide updatedon the front end.So cloud code or any builder tool unlessyoumake sure that the code has beendeployedum in the work to show character APIs.It's already running. Okay, let's go toour agent,refresh, go to integration guide andcopy the entire guideand saythis is the updated guide. So now thatitis switching from old quest type,it will work. Okay, fast forward. I haveto teach you something and this is timefor some lessons. I have been workingwith open claw and lord gold codecombination for more than a month now.So what how we essentially use law isopen flaw is the orchestrator like Isaid it only assigns work but the workthat is being assigned is for the mostpart we were using flawed group so Ithought okay let's use other openlyagents asthe executor so I want an open flooragent to pick up the task and do it thatwasAnd I had a lot of lessons learned whenI was trying to make it work with cloudcode. I thought it would bestraightforward when it came to openclaw as well. But I was wrong. It tookme more than 1 hour to fix the wholething because I was running intochallenges. If you look at me and in theprevious 10 minutes or so, I was fixingsuperbase errors because I made twosuperbase accounts instead of four.Okay, that's on me. And that was oncethat is fixed, I amunder the impression it works perfectly,but it didn't. And I had to test itaround six or eight times. The eighthtime was actually the one that isworking. So, we tried, you know,cyberpunk border app, it failed. Animethemed simple time tracking app. And Isaid uh it should have 9 to5 time slotsand you can add what you did for the daysimple app. And it's funny how it uh youknow took a lot of time when I wascyberpunk dudoo app. The bowler isbooking up and but it is not actuallyworking on it. It is just picking up andtiming out and leaving as is. And then Idecided to create a polar and anexecutor, a dispatcher or a worker,whatever you want to think. So Iactually made a lessons learned documentusing this open law. Actually open madethis for me. So if you look at the mainproblem was chrome orchestration.So lessons for reliable autonomy andwhat is this report and what is and isnot about assume back end is alreadycorrect. I was uh focusing on wrongsuperbase projects you won't face thatthe real topic is open floworchestration layer chron behavior mainis versus isolated session handlingworker dispatch execution guarantees andtask closing liability. So the corequestion was how do you make open clawreliably pick up a task start actualwork and notify human and complete thework and close the task without gettingstuck in scheduleuler weirdness. So thisis what I was facing for seven attemptsand I'm sure a ton of you out theretrying to build this functionality arerunning into same issues andthis is how I managed to fix it. Thefirst issue these are the three mainarchitectural issues and these are theworkflow mistakes that I did and here'swhat it will reach for. This is what wetested and what finally worked. I willtry to skim through most of it becausethis will be linked in your um resourcesso you can read. Chron is basically weakorchestration backbone. Main versusisolated session. We kept into runningdifferences between what main sessioncan do, what an isolated run can do andhow much context each path actuallycarries. Isolated run is not equal tolive main session. It does not it won'tbe able to handle big tasks. The surfaceor runtime limits are real. on web chatpersistent worker model we wanted toconstrain by missing threadbound sessionsupport and session orchestrationoptions were narrower than expected soyou can see a lot of mistakes were donetoo much logic lived in one placecompletion was not first class last stepthe start alert was not tightly bound toexecution so it would just send an alertand you know stay silent it wouldn'twork so if you tell To make thisautonomous, here's what it will reachfor. It will try cron polling, isolatedagent turns, session handoffs, workerspanning, inband notifications, andboard call backs. And all of this won'twork. And this is you should give youropenloy agent the URL for this and makeit read and ask it not to do thesethings. uh that looked reasonable butfailed. We chroned as everything failed.Chron detects and the main executes alsofailed. Architecture C main sessionchron. We tried to use complete removepolar completely and main session prawnjob that was not also working andarchitecture D external polar and openflaw worker. This is what finally workedand all of that you know the lesson thatI'm talking about this is where systembecame stable pull polling outside theLLM chron stack so we wrote an actualscript that is on the machine it runsand it checks the superbase for anytasks if there are tasks it will notifythe main session that is open which isOpen law andopen law worker will start executing andalso OS scheduleuler handles polling andopen claw handles exe executionnotifications much easier to debug eachstage and finally this is what you knowis production safe. The only constraintis your machine has to be running butand can be locked uh and all of that toobut you can be assured that that's whenyour open law agent does live right. Soas long as open law is on this will workno matter what. So open law is strongestas an execution engine not ascheduleuler. Once systems stoppedasking open law chron to be a durablealways on orchestrator and instead usedopen law for what is best that which isagent execution messaging file work andtask completion the autonomous loopfinally became reliable. So the reallesson is not open law field. The reallesson is reliable auton autonomy comesfrom giving each layer the job it isactually good at. So that is what wefigured out. And for the final oneremember how I said like a time tracker9 to5. This is what it created and ittook less than it was really fast too.You can. And the final one I asked it tocreate a Pokemon themed or somethingPokemon themed 2D pixel to-do. And ifyou look at the Telegram, it actuallyimplemented the last one. So this is theto-do 11:27 a.m. it picked up and by11:29 it finished and sent me a messagethat is done. So you can look at what itcreated.And uh yeah this ishow agent canban board works. The ideaof this the main goal for this is otheragents can assign agents book and agentswill pick it up work on it and notifyus. So this is the key that has beenmissing for a lot of people. They areessentially clueless how AI agents canwork on these tasks. Yes, you can askevery single day sitting here and typingon your telegram, but you need to be ina place where you have an intelligentagent that can handle and make otheragents work for you.This is one of the most exciting topicsthat I am interested in and why I madethis master in the first place and alsorealized why there have not many openclaw master classes out there. Maybethis is the only one and this linkbecause people we have two people boththe extremespeople who are giving away 30 50 100 usecases for open clock and they will justgive you a bunch of text and say gofigure it out. But actually implementingthat is the hardest part. And there area bunch of other type of videos who docover the setup. They go into hey thisis the problem you need to run. This iswhat you need to do. There are setupslike that. But there are only you knowmost setups cover one stage maybe two.But what I'm covering here is thebusiness operations do and it has sevenstages and zero gaps. I have beenrunning my AI agency for 3 years now andI've been documenting my entire journeyhere on YouTube.Every feature that we are about to buildin this master class moving forward mapsto a real business stage. We will dooutreach related employees. We'll dodiscovery related, proposal related,onboarding, delivery, intel, retention.And this isn't a tech demo. It is an AIpowered business engine. So if you lookat the table that I prepared here, ithas outreach. We talk about cold calls,email campaigns, prospecting at scale,AI, reaching out before you wake up. Wewill build all of this. So am I sayingthere will be outreach agents with threeagents and four agents? No, there willbe overlap. So if you look at Lexa thevoice agent, you can use Lexa in othercases as well. Or if you use Nova, thisemail agent, we can reuse that emailagent here as well in relation. Sousually what I'm talking about the isthe features that we are building willhave some overlay but we are creatingevery step of the business. So be indiscovery ability to research prospectprep for meetings. Know everything aboutwho you are talking to. All of thatmeeting intel research hub and cognitivememory is covered in the second area.And with only your proposals yougenerate quotes, you can generatestatement of work deliverables. You willbe able to turn the discovery insightsinto revenue documents. And onboardingwe will talk about how to welcomeclients. We set up the workflows. Wecreate dashboards because firstimpression is best impression fullyautomated and delivery build and shipactual work. How does that look like?After you have the onboarding call, wewill see or we will see a discovery callexample where AI will identify that thediscovery call that you had is fromuh is something related to sales and itwill flank that and makes youautomatically without asking a proposaland a meeting prototype that you canshow to the needing and it can also ifyou let it follow up with the person whoisactually booked the meeting with you fora follow-up appointment but we say thatfor the college and advanced teacher butyou get the idea we will apply the sameprinciple in the pedigree also havingthe onboarding call and making the AIagent build the prototype that they canthen come in and use for the actualwork. We don't see that. And when itcomes off, when that is done, we haveagents dispatch, building, validating,and reporting autonomously.And competitive intern, you will monitoryour competitors. You can find contentopportunities, work opportunities. Youcan stay ahead of your market. Andfinally, retention. You can dofollow-ups. You can do syncs, upselles,renewals. You keep clients happy withoutthe manual effort. So this is the frame.Every section that follows AI employeesmulti- aent commands and automationsmaps directly to one or more of thesestages. You're not building cold AItools. You're building an autonomousbusiness operation system. Every featurewill have a jaw.The most favorite part of my entiremaster class. Build your AI employees.These are full-time autonomous workersand needing prep for goals evencampaigns. a YouTube video. Each bone adedicated drawing none of them take daysoff. Each get its own center page withdata analytics and workflows. So oneemployee handles meetings and then itruns out leash another watches yourcompetitorslike 20 hours no day. So I am reallyexcited for this. First we will startwith needing intelligence. I am usingfing but you can use any applicationthat you have withthat's fireflies order as long as theyhave API key it will work. And then Lexais our full agent, voice AI for bothinbound and outbound calls,appointments, followups, and no one is aAI email agent with campaign, tipblades, analytics, auto replies, andcreate a command to have YouTubeanalytics, competitor intel, contentcalendar, and outline detection. So forall of this first before we start anemployee I will show how it works in myactual property application and then wewill build in our agent command centerand then we will build in agent commandhub. So this is the meeting intelligencethat I haveone of the obsent application.You will look atmeeting intelligence. This is thedashboard. It has all the meeting data.All the meetings that I had it has asyou can see a lot of detail. How manyhours? What is the average meetingcuration action items and from the day Isigned up June 2024 to today how theydeserve in every single month and uhwhich days are my busiest days of theweek what are the external organizationI will have a need and every need willhave detailed takeaways topics andeverything I give you about the link togo to an actual page where it has uh thebit there I don't want to but it's thereI want it and after from each leading wecan take automatic actions or we can doactions that are not automaticdeterminateso if I say this is a proposal let's sayif I go to sales calls discovery callswill show up here I can come here andclick on proposal it will generate theproposal. If I read lead managementand if you want to automate it whichhereanis we go to automations and inautomations we have functions and we cancreate a function which we say processfor data and generating HTML code. Butif you look at the web hook has deletedan endpoint that I'll fire them in ourfile. If you look at the claw,I have EDI key and web book secret andweb book here. And any time the med isdone, it gives me transcripts of it andaction items and they're sent here and Ican see that in web and this web hook isprocessed and comes here and once thatis done they will be in processingunless they are in discovery call andteam meetingit can ego will be already set up rightusing agent mail or something. So if uhI want to email my team members whereafter a meeting is done, I would say heyjob and these are the action items thatI want you to work on. But my Asian kidand then over and the same thing withone-on-one calls after I have a meetingwith the planet that transcendent can beoperated again. This is not generatingAI stuff. We are using our own knowledgepiece. These models are planting in sucha way they have all the context of whatwe know the best practice and everythingand they generate the report theygenerate the proposal. So if theyproposalimproves the pro because of the feedbackthatonly proposals that are blowingconverted into actual fields and welearn from them and we try and avoidthings that we did for field but welearn what we did different to what Iheard this couple. So we have everythinggreat. So this automations feature isamazing.First we will build our meetingintelligence and then we will make anopen pro agent as soon as the meetingcomes in. If it discovers it's adiscovery call, it automatically pick itup and create a proposal and create aprototype. That is the flow that we arebuilding for detail.But the full version actually has a lotmore than you can get this agents in theBS community a school community where Iwill be doing 3 hours track every singleweek in build together.So I would love to see you there.Now to build