have the new WordPress page publishedon how to set up YouTube competitoralerts like you can see. So, this waspublished directly to WordPress um usingthis process and then there you go.You're good to go. All right.So, it shows you, okay, here's whatyou're going to do. Here's what youneed. Here's how the alert rule works.um how to get an API key, how to enableit,how to add compared to channels, and youcan see like it took the whole process,but and it did use my local files. Umbut it doesn't show any API keys, andthis is all hosted locally, so it's it'ssiloed off from the rest of the world.Um and that's basically how it goes. Sostep by step, it not just understandsthe process, but actually teaches otherpeople how to do this, too. And by theway, if you want the full step-by-stepprocess for setting this up,like you can see right here onWordPress,then inside the AR profit boardroom, I'mgoing to add a new sectioncalled YouTube competitor alerts. And soif you want a monitoring system likethis, we've added it in plus thistutorial video right here. Right? So youcan just get the process directly fromme inside the AR profitable boardroom.So, let's go back to Claw Bond now. Andwe set up the first automation.That worked really well. If I want toredo all of the content silos, keyworddensities, and everything on an existingwebsite, can any of these tools do this?Yes. So, Clawbot can update existingpages. So, for example, if I if I goinside here, right, I'm like, okay, canyou add a nice relevant image to thepostplus links tothe AI profit boardroom and then I'llput a link to the AI profit boardroomhere. We should be able to edit thatpage directly on WordPress. Also, I'dlike you to switchit to a blog post, not a page.and then we should be able to update it.I've not tried that, but I think wecould probably do it. What else we gothere? Code Chimp says, "Julian, glad Imade it. Are you walking now when you golive?" I am now. Yeah. How many stepshave I done today? It's 7:00 a.m. in themorning. I've done 11,300 steps.Crushing it. Seiz says, "How complex isthe setup process running Claw on a VPS?I'm looking to run Clawbot on my own VPSto support large scale SEO automation.Will I get access to video tutorialsthat cover VPS honestly? Like I said, Imean I've said it probably five timestoday already, but like don't don't setit up on a VPS because if you run it ona VPS, you you can be exposed prettyeasily, right? There's actually peoplescraping uh VPS pages right now to tryand get access to other people's clawbots. And the problem is if you givelike for example WordPress access toclawbot and then someone scrapes yourVPS and they get access to your VPS,right? Well, then they can hack yourwebsite. Not good. Not no bueno, right?And so you want to make sure that you'renot using a VPS. Just run it locally. Ifyou if all the security issues I've seenso far come from two things. Number oneis running it on VPS because people canget access to that from the outside andit you know it creates a gateway pagewhere anyone can log in. And then numbertwo is prompt injection. So, forexample, if someone if you this why Idon't connect my emails, but if youconnect your emails to Claudebot andsomeone emails Clawbot pretending to beyou, well, potentially they couldmanipulate Clawbot into deleting youremails or sending emails that you don'twant to, etc., right? And so, numberone, avoid problems uh with gatewaypages by not using a VPS. And thennumber two, avoid using umavoidusing uh your email. So anything wherepeople could manipulate clawbot withprompt injection. These are the twothings you want to avoid. So if we havea look here, we've now got the blog postright here. And you can see that it saidright, I've added a nice relevant image,added a clear CTA at the top linking tothe airport boarding. I've switched itfrom a page to a blog post as you cansee right here. Then if we go, we've gotthe blog post set up as you can see.Rightnow, it's quite easy to set upuh on the page like you can see right.And if you're wondering, okay, like doesthis work, etc. So, if you actuallycheck out our search console forjilliangoldi.comover the last sort of 3 months, you cansee that it went from previously 74clicks a day all the way up to like 5uh 61 clicks a day as you can see righthere. Right? So, you can actually createcontent with clawbot. You can rank it asI've shown today. It can publishdirectly to WordPress and that is a verypowerful skill.Right? Wilty says, "Very importantinformation. Thanks, Julian. Alwayshappy to help you." You you know me likeI I'd have your best interest at heart.Like I don't want to see anyone um getany issues from this. And you know, it'sbetter to be safe than sorry. That'swhat I would recommend. Just just playit safe anddon't don't do anything that you don'tfeel comfortable with. That's what I'drecommend uh to anyone watching. Allright. So, that was the first workflowdone. Message me proactively. What Ialso want to do is I want to say analyzemy YouTube videosand give me new video ideas daily basedon what's working. So I'm going to sayanalyzemyexistingYouTube videoseach day.Give me proactivevideo ideas based on what'salready workingand tell me what to avoid, too. I'mgoing to say here's my YouTube channel.So, I publish about I would say anywherebetween 5 to 12 videos a day on thischannel. And what I want you to do isact as a YouTube content expertand tell mewhat's in the bottom 90% and what's inthe top 10% so that I know which videosto focus on more when I'm creating morecontent for my channel. If you can dothat each day, that would be great.Thank you. And now we should be able toset that up running as a daily skill.Uh, code Jim says, "Just joined yourschool. Welcome very much." Thanks verymuch for joining it. Uh, plans to nomadto take my vibe coding more seriously.Awesome, man. Congrats. Honestly, if Iwas starting like you, I would I wouldprobably go with client work, you know,cuz a lot of uh companies out there,they're looking for people who areexperts with AI and they're looking forpeople who can help them automate morestuff. So, if you're deep into this andyou need to just get like one or twoclients so that you can go nomads andand travel, that's probably the bestplace to start. It's like try and getsome clients. Um, it will help you. Ah,coach Chimp has two clients. All right.Awesome, man. Congrats. And thenDepartment of Personal Efficiency says,"Hello, just joined. Welcome, sir.Welcome."So, we're going to get Clawbot to set upthis new automation which monitors mychannel daily, gives me some ideasand then from there tells me, okay,here's what's in the bottom 9%, here'swhat's in the top 10%, do more of this,do less of that, right? Which issomething that I genuinely have to likemanually do and it's super annoying.Whereas with this, we can just go ahead,right? What else we got here? SEO says,in that case, what setup or environmentwould you recommend for the bestperformance? Stability. Mac Mini hasbeen the best for me. out of everythingthat I've tried. Also, is therecommended setup a paid service or arethere free options available? So, if youset it up on a Mac Mini, right, thenit's running locally, which means it'sgoing to be more secure. And then also,when it comes to the setup, do notconnect Gmail, do not connect youremails, etc. GitHub itself for settingup Clawbot is free, right? So, you canuse it for free. Um, and there's noissues there. If you want to know how toset this up, just check out theinstructions inside the clawbot courseright here. We show you step by step howto set this up. And then when it comestoum the API, I would recommend upgradingto plus or pro on chat GPT and thenusing codec cla with oorthth, right?Because then you get a lot more tokens.It doesn't cost you anything extra thanyou chat GPT subscription and you canrun clawbot uh really well. It's it'sreally good for coding and everythingelse. It doesn't have much personalityinside clawbot itself. But I'm actuallygoing to come on to a nice interestingway to fix that in a minute. So herewe've got what I set up daily top 10%versus bottom 90% analyzer projectfolder script metrics views per hour. Sonew uploads aren't unfailing blah blahblah output includes top 10% examples. Aran a test is already pulling yourrecent winners and losers. correctly.Daily proactive report scheduled added adaily chron jobs every day at 8:00 a.m.Um, it will trigger the to run thereport for you. And it says one tweetquestion because you post 5 to 10 today.Do you want the daily report to analyzethe last 60 videos or the last 200videos? I'm going to go withlet's go with the last 60. Also, can youdo a test run now so I can see anexample of the report? um department offish efficiencies had had yeah I'vealready done a video about that butbasically this is why I switched over tousing codeex instead of anthropic rightso if you're using oorthth fromanthropic with clawbotthat's not bueno right that's not buenobut you can use chat GP codeex cli asfar as I'm aware right do you use opus4.5 all the time no I use chat GPT codecclium and the other option that you havenow is kimmy k2 2.5, which I might setup in a second. What's your thoughts onAgent Zero? Pretty cool, but nowherenear the same level as Clawbot,honestly, from what I've seen. Um, so Iwould I I quite like Agent Zero. I gotquite a few videos on YouTube about it,but I still prefer Clawbot right now.Does Clawbot eat up the same amount ofRAM as Claw Code or more? Not as far asI've seen. No, it seems to be prettylightweight because it's running in thecloud. Whereas, you know, like you'vegot clogged code which seems to take upum a lot more space, but I don't know.I'm not I'm not like a million% uhcertain on that. I would just check itout and do the test yourself. So, let'ssee. So, it's now analyze the top 10%versus the bottom 10% of the views perhour. Says here's the baseline average.Here's the top threshold. Um and here'sthe top 10% of what's working, right? Soit says clawbot automate anything freeAR course that's doing well. New Geminiagentic vision update is performingreally well so far. 11,000 views. We gotanti-gravity and maltbot automateanything that's doing pretty good.Gemini update AI studio update. So theseones are doing really well, right? Andthen we've got these bottom 90% that wewant to avoid, right? So for example,you've got uh clawbot AI SEO. Not sogood. doesn't do so good, right? Uh,three new Chinese AI are insane. Didn'tdo so well. This new free design toolbeats Google. I can understand why aswell. Like some of this stuff soundssuper boring. Um, and it's like what toavoidand then next five ideas, right? It's afree tool destroys paid alternatives.Update workflow that gets results in 10minutes, right? I copy the compared toscorebot strategy. Here's what happened.Blah blah blah. Right? Pretty nice. Ifyou want this to be even more usefuldaily, I can add two extra sessions. So,repeat winners and this one as well. So,I'm actually going to do that.Yes, add those. Okay. I will try aclawbot, but running on my laptop in asandbox container is perfectly fine. Ilike I don't know 100% what you mean bylike sandbox container. I know somepeople are using Docker for this. Andthen also um I just run it in terminallike just running it locally on a on aMac mini. Is this clawbot runninglocally or in VPS? As I've said manytimes, don't use a VPS. I've said itabout 10 times, but don't use a VPS forclawbot. Um code says yes, Docker. Yeah,I know quite a few people running uhDocker with Clawbot as well. So yeah, sothis is fixing the automation now to addthe repeat winners section as well. Butthat should be one of the best thingsthat I've just automated because usuallyI have to do that daily myself. Uh youknow analyze my YouTube videos, seewhat's performing, blah blah blah.Whereas this will save me a lot of timeand a lot of analysis which is awesome,right? Um what else we got here? So wegot a bunch of posts inside the airprofit boardroom about clawbot as well.So what's everyone feeling like? Is ithype etc. I said the hype is real butonly if you use it correctly, right?Also experience to work with clawbot.Salmonactually posted like his experience andhow he set it up, etc. And uh that'spretty cool. It was super useful post.Would recommend checking that out too.The name of your clawbot. Let's see whatpeople have called it. Pepe. Someonecalled it. DJ LobsterHector.What else we got here? Yeah, there's somuch cool stuff you can do with it. Imean, there's loads of people postingabout it. Um how tobe careful with it as well. So you canseeuh lots of people installing clawbotinside the AR profit boardroom as well.So yeah there's loads if you want toconnect with people doing this like jointhe AR profitable board. So now we'vegot the new sections added to the dailyreport. So the repeat winners like youcan see and then it will just post itinside the chat here right here. Okay,here's three fast things that we couldset up right now. Pretty nice. Let's seewhat we got here. So B recommends usingProxmox. Not tried that out. Yep. Sayswhy not use VPS cuz there securityproblems. Department of personalefficiency says I bought a minis forummini PC for my daily driver vibe codingmachine. What's your way to make theusage more cost effective when I want tobuild NA10 workflows? Um, so actually Ijust use Clawbot now. I don't reallybuild NA10 workflows. I find like if Ican have everything linked inside asimple Telegram chat like this, that'sgoing to work way better and way fasterthan using something like NA10. Andhonestly, like most entrepreneurs I knoware using AI to to really scale theirbusiness. But they're not using NA10,right? And I don't know many peopleactually get good results with NA10 whenit comes to comparing that versussomething like clawbot. I think clawbotjust it gives you better results umoverall and I think it's a lot morepractical and a lot more like usefulbecause it can just go out in the realworld and do stuff right whereas forexample NA10 it's kind of limited to itsonly little it's it's a little containerif that makes sense. CodeCimp says, "Irun Proxmox on a Geekcom. Also got a MacMini basic." O says, "I run I plan torun Clawbot 24/7." Yes. So, I wouldrecommend using a Mac Mini. I don't knowum why you would want to use like aWindows server for that and and I don'tuse Windows, so it's not somethingthat I recommend. Um, you know, yeah,I I would recommend just going for uhyeah, just going for a Mac mini setup.No VPS. Don't use Windows. I mean, whouses Windows? Like, it's just it's nobueno. No bueno. Especially if you'reinterested in productivity. It's becauseyou can create Pythonfar and n workflows. Yeah, 100%. I itmachine says personally saying clearfrom clawbot for at least another 6months more than likely a big providerwith the right backing security willlaunch some similar functionality. Yeah,I mean like I think right nowif you look at everything that we've gotI would say that clawbot is like theclosest thing we've got to AGI and it'sit's interesting it's come from an opensource plugin but like I think in thefuture yeah you'll see something like II probably Claude will launch her ownthing that'll be better. Yeah. Is theCloudare workers set up more? Yeah, I'veactually heard good things about theCloudfare setup. I might set up todayjust for fun. See if we can do it. So,just to recap there, we set up twoautomations to monitor our competitors.One of them, we said, "Message meproactively when a competitor posts aYouTube video that performs better thanaverage." And I gave it a bunch ofchannel links and now it's set up for adaily report. The other one that we didis say analyze my YouTube videos,writing um and just give me some ideason what's the top 10% and what's thebottom 10% for the day. So that I'vejust automated two tasks I normally haveto do manually myself. That's prettycool. If you want to get all the notesfrom today, you can get that inside theAI profit boardroom link in the commentsdescription or go to arprofitboard.com.Inside the community, you can ask anyquestions and get help and supportwhenever you need it. And also you cansee here that it's not just me winningwith AI, right? Everyone inside thereare profitable volume is winningbuilding stuff creating stuff. It's anamazing place today. You can see forexample Norbert um win today with AImode and search engine. You've got forexample Kevin building his very firstapp with AI and then you've got forexample Mal is crushing it with SEO aswell as you can see right. So if youwant to join the air profit boardingfeel free to link in the commentsdescription. You also get four weeklycoaching calls. You can jump on livecalls get help get support whenever youneed it. And also inside the classroomhere, we have all of our best training.So you can see, for example, we show youhow to go from complete beginner toexpert with AI, plus how to build yourfirst AI agent in under 5 minutes.Additionally, you'll learnhow to create AI avatar videos and allmy best playbooks for marketing,including like X automations, how Iautomate shorts, Instagram newsletters.It's all inside the AI profit boardingwith video tutorials and step-by-stepguides. And then also you can see herewe have a full 3-hour course on how touse Clawbot or Mobbot. Um full setupguides for everything that I've set upas you can see right here. And then alsoyou can see inside this section we havethe full tutorial on what I set up todaywith a step-by-step guide and basicallyeverything you need to know about mobileis inside the AI profitable board. Sofeel free to get it. Link in thecomments description. Today we're goingto be looking at Moltbook, which is asocial network purely for AI agents. Asyou can see right here, this ismoltbook.comand essentially it is a social networkfor AI agents. So what does that mean?Essentially, this is where agents candiscuss, upvote, and