little reverse prompt for youright there. And then you go in and itwill build out the Discord setup foryou. Easy peasy. And now you have thisadvanced workflow going. Lastly, I wantto talk about security. This is one ofthe biggest questions I get. Is OpenClaw secure? Is it dangerous? Well, letme be blunt with you right here. Is itsecure? If you use it the right way,yes. If you don't use it the right way,no. It's not secure. and it can dodamage, but the fact that it's sopowerful makes it insecure. Just is whatit is. If it wasn't so dangerous, itwouldn't be nearly as powerful. So, hereare a few rules you need to keep inmind. There are no final list of everysingle tiny security thing you can dobecause everyone uses their botdifferently. So, here are the threehighle things you need to keep in mind.One is your open claw has control overeverything on your computer. Anything onyour computer, your open claw is exposedto. That means if you have passwords onyour computer, if you have API keys onyour computer, that means your open clawhas access to it. So your open claw hasbasically admin access to your entiredigital life. If you're logged in to Xon your computer, it has access to yourentire Twitter account. If you're loggedinto your Gmail on your computer, it hasaccess to all your emails and can emailanyone out. It is admin on everything onyour computer. So that means if youdon't want your open claw to have accessto something, don't be logged into it onyour computer. That also means you don'twant to expose your open claw to theworld. What does that mean? If youexpose your open claw to the world, sosay put it in a group chat with yourfriends or allow it to reply to tweetson X, that means it can get promptinjected. And if it gets promptinjected, that means it can exposeanything it has access to like yourpasswords and API keys. So, I highlyrecommend against putting your open clawon group chats. I highly recommendagainst allowing anyone to have accessto your open claw because if they haveaccess to your open claw, they haveaccess to all your passwords and APIkeys and email accounts and Twitteraccounts and all that. So, keep itpersonal, keep it private. Do not allowanyone to talk to it, expose itself toit, anything like that. I don't have itreading my tweet replies. I don't haveit reading my emails. I will eventuallyget to the point where I put up theguard rails around it to make it safe,but right now I just have it doingpersonal work on my computer. And thelast security tip I will give is thinkdeeply about what your claw will do withevery prompt you give it. Before yougive it a prompt, think will this exposeit to the world? Will this make it dosomething risky? Will it allow it to getprompt injected in some sort of way? Ifyou think deeply about every prompt yougive it, you will be able to stop itfrom doing stupid and bad things. Right?So three is think deeply with everycommand you give what your claw is goingto do. And you can even take it a stepfurther and say, "Hey, before you doanything, open claw, give me astep-by-step plan on what you plan ondoing here." If you keep these threethings in mind, there's basicallynothing you'll be able to do where badthings will happen. It's all aboutpersonal responsibility. As they said inSpider-Man, with great power comes greatresponsibility. If you're using OpenClaw, you have great great power. So,make sure you have great greatresponsibility with it. There arehundreds of more advanced use cases. Ifyou want more looks into those, checkout my channel. I have so many videosabout OpenClaw. Let me know down in thereplies below. What do you want to seemore of on the channel about OpenClaw?Do you want more videos on missioncontrol? Do you want more videos onlocal models? Do you want more videos onmore advanced use cases, security? Letme know. All my videos are based onfeedback and requests. So, I listenclosely to every single comment. Again,if you want to ask me questionsdirectly, feel free to join the liveOpen Claw boot camps, which are everysingle Friday. If you join Vibe CodingAcademy now, you get all the pastrecordings to the boot camps. Thatlink's down below. Super critical youturn on notifications, too, so you learnabout these advanced workflows themoment I come up with them. I hope thiswas helpful. So much more coming out onOpen Claw soon. Enjoy the power, enjoythe technology. This is the most amazingtime to be alive ever.