is expensive it is almost3.5x more tokens than single agentsetups and what is the fix For that fixis you isolate subtask with forwardslashspawn.So each agent runs in clean context. Soinstead of asking your main agent to doeverything. If you look at the examplethat we were doing earlier, I was askingit to use plot sonnet to create anarticle for us. You can do that forvarious reasons. You can do that becausesonnet is good for certain tasks. Butthe idea is you spawn a researcher andyou it's a in a task. So the spawn agentgets a clean context from you know yourmain agents context say stays lean. Sothis is critical for three rolesarchitecture. Uh your architect stayslightweight, managers coordinate andworkers execute in isolation. Each rolegets only the context it needs not thecombined history of everything. If youdon't understand anything about thiswhen we are actually building forexample on our canban board I talk abouta concept about you know the builder thethe architect and uh the orchestratorwhich is like the manager and uh finallythe executor which are the workers. Sothere is this three role architecture.This will make a lot of sense in thecoming sessions. But just know your subagentsyou will be saving a ton of tokens ifyou let your sub agents work inisolation.By this time you might have understoodthis is not really like a beginnertutorial where we show the installationconven which is basic done by a bunch ofpeople. This is for people. I assume youalready have an open claw account butyou're only using it at a basic leveland you want to you know build businessuse cases grow move if you go throughwhat that means I will cover that in theskills section. I just showed you dailylayers. Now here's somehat was actuallyrunning this. A guy on broke down thisentire monthly spend. He uses Opus forinitial setup that will cost him about$40 and then he switches to Kim K2.5 toNvidia Street for daily operations andthen a highQ for heartbeat less than adollar a month and DC for coding pass.He will use whisper for voicetranscription. His total monthly cost isabout $60 and that includes 11 lab storevoice and a dedicated phone number forsignal. And this is the entire breakdownthat he's done. Right? That's a fullyautonomous agent running 24/7 for 60bucks. And notice the pattern. It'sexactly what we covered. You know,expensive model for setup, cheap modelfor daily ops and cheapest or freemodels for heartbeats. And that is likeeight layers in action. I actually havethis uh post that you can read and thereare a bunch of comments as well howother people are using it and I wouldjust give this entire thing copy anentire thing and paste it in the in youropen draw agent and ask it to hey whatdo you think the best setup is for usand you come up with your rule budgetand don't let this stop you from usingopen claw because It's people arerunning this for as low as $ 20 $30 andthe input results and Kimik K2.5 is oneof the best models out there. It's bothOBS 4.5.So if you know how to use that rightobviously you can get a lot of value forthis and for boys these people arespending for whisper and laps you canget deep 200 credits for free and if youwould just go with transcription I thinkdeepra they give you like 45,000 minutesor some crazy amount of transcriptionminutes for $200.So the next section that we have issecurity module. The thing that mostpeople are conveniently ignoring.I have a master's degree in cybersecurity and thisworks with every and any you know ifyou're using VPS it works. It applies ifyou're working with Mac Mini it applies.So don't worry about protocol truth yet.It will come uh it will be a thing oncewe start using it uh doing things withit. But why this matters? There are17,000 plus exposed instances and it'stwo unpatched zero days and this is asof March 1st maybe 2026might have changed u but open web UI has31 plus known security vulnerabilitieslearning to unpatch zero day remotecoding execution plus. So there are alot of things that um you know arecurrently wrong in terms of securitywith open flaw. Is it worth using? Yeah.If you sandbox it and you keep itcompletely under PPS, don't give anysensitive data or if you're completelykeeping it in a machine like a Mac Minior a computer laptop whatever you wantto call it as long as you sandbox itdoesn't have any sensitive data it is anexcellent and what is the solution forthe security issues. So two-page quickstart that stops 80% of the attacks in15 minutes and a full Mac mini hardeningguide which is nine steps and completeVPS hardening guide which is 13 steps ifyou want 100% security and again theseare I ignored some of the things thatwill eventually be fixed which I know tobe fixed and not serious we go by thisparto principle 8020 rule how to takewhat are the 20% of the things that Ican do to get the 80% upside 80%security that is what I included so ifwe bought CV you need to know commoncommand injection by a crafted skillthis is a big one and uh it's criticalunpatchedand unless you are your model is highlysophisticated I mean at least open 4.6effects or maybe sometimes codeex 5.3evenother person can basically writeanything and you ask your agent to reada page and it will mistake it for acommand and execute it. You don't wantthat. So code injection via two landingdocker container escape oneclick rc viacrafted leg. So if that went rightthrough your head, it doesn't matter.This is not a security course.But you should know what command and whyyou're running. That's the wholeproblem.And a lot of people don't know that andasking their open agent to do whateverand getting into all of these promptinjection kind of issues. So to protectfrom the obvious ones, I createdsomething like six things that stop 80%of the attacks. You can read the wholething. It's really detailed. I haveprompts as well. Disclaimer, don't runit unless you are prepared to, you know,run into some issues. It's on thesurface it looks like easy but maybeflawed open claw will be able to do itaround 70% of these things and um if yourun into some issues it will just stopworking and you'll have to figure outwhy it stopped working. So my advice dowhat I'm doing right now. Everything isstep by step six steps. I created boththe site and also uh six things thatstop 80% of the attacks like Pertoprinciple they have been fixing a lot ofissues as of March 20206these are some of the things that weneed to do from our side this hasnothing to do with how open law claw isit is purely to do with your setup andalso if you want full guide you can dobut this is few things that I willrecommend if we just open this VPShardening guide let's say and it hasabout 16 pages as you can see on theside there and every step and if you youknow you can be 100% satisfied and happyand content that you areyou fixed every single issue but for theones who want to spend no more than 1015 minutes and get the most out of thisis what I would recommend. So this ismore for pin cloud security and this isfor Mac Mini. This is for VPS. This isfor Mac Mini and you can go in order youcan you know to keep things simple oryou can soup to you and most of the things this ismy new Mac Mini so I haven't done abunch of things myself so I can do showyou couple and for every command Imentioned why this is important and ifyou should do this or not local modelservers have zero authentication on0.0.0.0.Anyone on your Wi-Fi can use yourmodels. So this will be especially anissue if you are working from a you knowoffice or you know what happened anykind of shared Wi-Fi that you don't knowpeople at you know if you're usingpublic places public Wi-Fi it's a hugething. Obviously, you are not runningyour open flaw there. So, it's fine. Uhand then who who needs to install it. Uhand this is the first one I missed it.Only if you run Olama, Codeex, LMStudio, skip for cloud only. Installtail scale access from anywhere. Zeroopen ports. Who everyone who needs theirMac Mini remotely? So, if you are usingyour Mac Mini remotely, which I'mplanning to. So I will just copy thiscommand and uh go to your terminal andjust run thatand uh it is runningand once that is done I want to look atwhat's next. So I will keep this so Ican access this. What else we have?Install tail scale and then enablefirewall. Oh, everyone on Mac OS shouldon turn on your firewall. So, I willcopy these three commands. When Ccome here and once this is done, it isat 40%, 42%.Once this is done, I will run the nextcommand. Oh, by the way, some of thethings that we arebaiting on,open CLA Asian can do this for us. I'mdoing this just for a way to get back tothis. Feel free to skip ahead.So, I got the 10 scale got startedinstalled. Now, open settings.Okay.tail skill network extensionspasswordand if you don't want to use remote youdon't have todownand I'm running the next set of commandsto turn on my firewallsothey haven't received any errors sothat's a good thing critical securityvariables so you need to add a few.These are three critical securityvariables. Who everyone using open webUI any model doesn't matter. You need torun this web UI secret key. Why are wedoing this? Blocks the three top threeattacks predictable tokens openregistration and unpatched zero day. Sowhat how do we do this? We need tocreate a generate a random 32 hex. Sohow do you do that? You will copy thisand you will run this here.And uh I should probably blur this oruse another key. I have another randomkey. I will use that not this. And thenwhat you need to do this is not docker.This is directly installed right. So Iwill you will need to do this export webUI key.Copyand paste.And you can paste this key or yeah mightas well blood thiskey go. And now we need todo enable signup false. This willprevent these open registrationandnext up we have enable I'm purposefullydoing it one by one.So we are turning this requirementenable pip install form matterrequirements false and finally we aresaving everythingso we don't lose it on restarts.Yeah, I need to fix this.But and then I'm not using Dockerdesktop on Mac OS, so it doesn't matter.But if you do uh let this is you don'tdo this. It is um it let attackersescape the container and take over yourentire Mac. uh install Lulu and I am notdoing this because it's my standaloneMac just for uh open floor and installLulu see what's phoning home this is Macwhy is it um what's neededthis is for everyone on Mac OSespecially with third party skills ortools warning Mac OS firewall only blowlogs incoming traffic. Lulu watchesoutbound. Do not stack with littlesnitch. So Lulu alerts you whenever anew process tries to connect to theinternet. Catches malicious skills,compromise containers or appsexfiltrating your data. So it is a goodsoftware to have. So good tool to have.I will come here and again if you arefamiliar with little snitch you wouldprobably won't even need this if you arealready using it but if you are not umuse this and also never put API keys inthe config raw API keys are easily easyto compromise soin this tutorial you might see in theinterest of time I might um go the usualway because I don't want to blur and doall of these. I will just probably giveit in the chat. And I started torealize, you know, as soon as I give APIkey off camera touh open floor, it is actually calling meout. It was not a thing before, but nowit is calling me out saying, "Hey, uhyou just exposed your anthropic key inthe chat. I want you to recycle it ASAP.Considered that it's compromised. Dothis now. And it's amazing, you know,how far they've come. And uh that's it.If you are using Mac Mini, that's whatyou do. If you are using a server, thisis what you need to do. And full guide,16 pages, 9 pages or something. I haveseparate guides for 100% security. Andsome of them may need updating dependingon when you're watching this, but Itried to give you ones that areabsolutely necessary.Probo two, I want to hammer this homebecause most people skip security andclick 38. A guy on Reddit who's beenrunning Open Flaw for weeks put togetherhis own security checklist and it linesup with almost everything we covered andthis is what he has. Move APIs to envatekeys every 30 days. Create dot getignore for sensitive files. Inputvalidation of email scripts. No sendingwithout approval. rate limit externalAPI ports, encrypt memory files, usestain skin for remote access, no openRDP ports, and his one thing, ZenoRoach, the CEO of Reset, uh, wrote awhole article, whole guide on givingyour patient email access and even hewarns about this. Security researchershave already shown a single craftedemail can trick your open into leakingyour entire windows. Prompt injection aspeople and prompt injection throughemail content. It's not theoretical.It's not a threat. It's actuallyhappening and that's why we covered thischapter before anything else. If youskipped here, go back and I have a bunchof resources linked and this is realopen use cases that we have and uh thisis this uh article that I was talkingabout as Zenorauh CEO recent and also we have emaildata leak that um these are importantfeeds and it's important that youhave a chat with your agent. If I do allof that video will become unnecessary.Now it's just a matter of you going toeither you are orchestrated that's thefirst thing you need to go to oryou just need to ask it why and how wecan prevent this. Have we facedsomething like this before or be proneto facing something like this before?So,this is amazing.Before we book from security, I savedbig things for last. Everything I showedyou, the six steps, the hardening guide,uh the firewall, key rotation, that'syou doing it by hand, and you shouldknow how to do it by hand.But while I'm building this course,Nvidia just announced something calledNemo Claw. And I'm sure it's going to bebig. But I need to show you this becauseit changes the game. Nemo is Nvidia'sopen-source wrapper around open flow.And the entire pitch is security. everysingle problem I bowl into about exposedinstances propped injection and uh uhcontainer escapes API keys and plaintext. Nvidia looked at all of that andsaid we need to fix that atinfrastructure level and here's what itactually does. Uh Neimoclaw takes youropen agent and puts it inside somethingcalled open shell. Think of it like asandbox, but it's not a casual sandbox.This is enterprise grade. Like everyfile your agent touches, every networkrequest it makes, every process itspawns, all of it goes through a policydata and your agent will start with zeropermissions and you decide what it canaccess and everything is log. We havethis table. You know if you are usingopen claw what it does? Let's see. Openclaw your agent same one you alreadybuilt. Open show is a sandbox runtimepolicy based security and neotron isNvidia's open-source model and this isoptional. You don't have to use it. Fileaccess policy controlled which is leastprivilege. It doesn't have access toanything unless you give it. Networkrequests allowed list are you knowlocked and auditable and secretsisolated and never export exposed toagent and interfaceprivacy router sensitive data stayslocal. So remember what I said about proprompt injection through email wheresomeone sends agent like a craftedmessage and it leaks your data openshould work caster the agent can'texfiltrate data through a domain thatisn't on the anal and it's not relyingon AI to be smart about security. It'senforcing it at an infrastructure levelbecause if you read some of the reviewsor people talking online they say oh ifyou are using cloud locus 4.6 fix. It ispretty resistant to prompt ejection. Butif you are usingif you are usingany model other than that not the toptier model you might be just headlessand it's always you know something thatholds people back. The agent literallycannot do what the policy doesn'tpermit. So even if your model is not thesmartest, you are enforcing the securityat the infrastructure level and you caninstall it in three commands and uh youcan open the terminal and type get clonehttps.I don't want to do this because we aredoing in we are in the middle of asession.I don't want to reconfigure everythingfrom ground up and it let's uh I willmake a dedicated video on how to set upusing neuro kernel and it will be like a40 50 minute session but I just want tocover this and I believe this is a gamechanger for a lot of people all thebusinesses who were worried aboutsecurity previously will start adoptingopen open flow and I was teaching orimplementing this only for my closestclients and also as a businessopportunity there is this notoriety andlike it's well known in this point thatit has a lot of security risk althoughthey are fixing it a lot but this morefrom Nvidia is a game change that powerwill install open shell and the Nemoclass CLI and optionally the Nemo promodels uh once Compared that to sixmanual steps I showed you, right? Nemoclaw automates all of it and adds layersyou can't do by hand. And it is amazing.That's why they're sayingit's enterprise view. And to launch it,you just need to run this command neocspace launch dribb.And now your open globe is runninginside a sandbox environment. the sameagent, same configuration, same skill,but not every action is policy enforced.Now, here's the thing. Limo claw stillearly. Nvidia is calling it an alpharelease. It's Apache 2.0, which iscompletely free and it's hardwareagnostic.A lot of people will have this question.Do I need an Nvidia GPU? No, you you cantry a 8. It doesn't matter if it'sNvidia, GPU, AMD, Intel or Apple,doesn't matter. Whatever you have, itworks. But I want to be here with you.The manual heartbeat I showed you, youstill need to know it. Open clockhandles the sandbox, but it doesn'treplace understanding what you'resecuring and why. And if you skip thefirst part, do at least the 80% that Iwas showing you. If you are not intodeep