timer which I'll talkabout later. So now it just happens forme which is incredible and it's supereasy and it's super straightforward. Umyou can solve so many tiny littleproblems in your life using tools likethis. So once you've built likeindividual workflows that work reallywell, then you eventually transition towhat I call metadirectives. So at theend of this, what you will essentiallyhave is you will essentially have okaygiant families of workflowsthat do various things. For instance, Iwill have like a marketing workflowumbrella. And this is a family ofworkflows that does things like, youknow, scrape leads, create ad copy, youknow, do uh voicemail drops, I don'tknow, whatever the heck, right? And sowhat this umbrella workflow, thismetadirective does is it just ties themtogether. So, for instance, if you havea bunch of separate workflows for, Idon't know, a welcome email, the setupof a workspace, and the copyrighting ofan email, this is sort of like anonboarding thing, right? So, you couldjust tile all these together with a newclient workflow that just does all themin sequence. I recommend storing thedirectives separately in order to makethis happen. I don't recommend just likehaving a giant new client workflowthat's like four quadrillion linesbecause it's much easier and moremaintainable for the model to load onlywhat it needs in context at any oneparticular time. But this becomes reallypowerful because they just chain all ofthe existing capabilities together.Instead of you having to go like 1 2 3,you know, you have like four or fiveworkflows. What you do is you just turnthat into one workflow and then everytime you want all of these done insequence, you just call the bigworkflow, not individual workflows. Italso means that when you prompt themodel and use it as like an assistant orwhatever, you could just say, "Hey, Iwant you to do X, Y, and Z onboardingworkflow." And then you can just stepaway, have a freaking nice cup of tea orsomething like that and come back andeverything's okay. You don't actuallyhave to get like interrupted all thetime. And yeah, when you combine thatwith the infinite reusability of theseworkflows, this becomes really, reallypowerful because then you can just sendyour new client workflow to the otherthree account managers on your team andthen they can just run it every timethey get a new client. or as I'm goingto show you later, maybe you couldattach that to a schedule trigger orsome sort of web hook so that it justruns autonomously without you. Hopefullythat makes sense. Now, we're startingone of my favorite topics in directiveorchestration execution and just agenticworkflows in general, and that's thisidea of self annealing. First, let'stalk about annealing in a general sense.Annealing is the process of heating apiece of metal and then slowly coolingit down. Basically what happens ispreviously the molecules in the metalare kind of all over the place. But whathappens when you heat up a metal is theyend up actually moving to like theirhighest or rather lowest energy stateand they end up looking kind of like acrystal lattice which is really badass.And then what we do is we cool it downvery quickly which then hardens this andsets it into you know some really strongrobust piece of metal. Blacksmiths andso on have been doing this for many manygenerations. It removes a bunch of theseinternal weird misconfigurations of theatoms and it creates a really strongmore stable structure. So people do thiswith swords and you know uh uh devicesand and pieces of metals all the time inreal life. It's cool as hell. And todayI wanted to talk about a similar conceptin agentic workflows. So what if we hadthe ability to stress test our workflowsas well to make them significantly moreresilient? Turns out we do. When webuild instruction sets, prompts ordirectives for our agents. I want you tothink of them as looking something likewhat we see on the left hand side here.In short, these are pretty rough. Wehave some idea of how we want theworkflow to develop. Maybe we want it tostart here and then go over here and goover here, here, and then here. But wedon't really have uh uh you know astrong mechanism to do it. All we reallyhave so far is just an outline. Youknow, when we when you say step one, doX, step two, do Y, and step three, do Z,all this really is is just a couple ofbullet points on a piece of paper. Andeven if you have an agent like produce aworkflow for you uh in a directive form,it's not super tight. What self-annealing does is basically every singletime we run into some error or issue oropportunity for improvement, the systemreinforces that flow. And so if this onthe left hand side is what we kind of doon the first day, this on the right handside is after maybe 60 days of you usingan agentic workflow. Instead of it justbeing this small little piss ant line onthe left, we have a super strong battlehardened protocol. You know, every oneof these little shields is some form ofretry logic. You know, uh it's so muchbeefier. There's like validation stepsthat that go into place. Maybe you havehuman in the loop at specific steps youdidn't realize that you needed beforeand so on and so forth. And so you knowif I'm somebody designing a workflowdespite the fact that I start over hereon the left hand side at the end of theself- annealing process my workflowactually becomes super super robust andvery resilient as well. So that conceptis self- annealing instead of brittlesystems that break every time that youerror out like with you know nadn ormake or whatever. When you build thesesystems they just strengthen over time.The secret ingredient is adding a levelof thoughtful error handling to yoursystem prompt. And the whole idea iswhen you do this, it will learn and itwill adapt. Problems essentially stopbeing like problems in the error senseand they start being opportunities foryou and the model to build edge cases umerror handling and sort of unexpected uhuh steps in that you just didn't reallyunderstand the first time because a lotof the time the only way to know is justby doing a bunch. So when you enter theself annealing loop essentially whathappens is there will be some sort oferror. Immediately after you willdiagnose where the error is coming fromthen you will attempt some sort of fix.After the fix you will then update. Soyou'll actually update the workflow theexecution script itself and then you'lljust rotate over and over and over andover and over again. And then finallyeventually this stops erroring out rightand then it becomes successful. And whenit becomes successful, all we do is wejust do some sort of documentationupgrade. And so we let the directiveknow, hey, you know, this is a commonissue that previously used to happen alot. We've since reinforced against it,and it's a lot better. And then the nexttime the loop uh fixes, and let's saythis eventually goes into some sort oferror. Well, guess what happens? We justrun the same thing. We go through anerror, then we diagnose, then we fix, orattempt to fix, I should say, and thenwe update. And then we just loop overand over and over again until we can nolonger loop. Okay, so this is reallylike that four-step process. The agentwill continue until the operationsucceeds or it hits like some superunfixable wall, just something that likeactually requires a human being evenwhen something is unfixable. You'll findthat an agent often will find a creativeworkound. So like for instance, if oneof the things that you asked for is likeyou asked for 50 leads or something ormaybe I always use leads cuz you knowI'm just super in that business. Butlet's just take a step back here and sayyou are looking for like 50 blog postson a subject, right? And your whole jobis you want to like take these blogposts and then use them to createsomething. Your definition of done isyou get 50 blog posts from your scraper.Well, let's say the scraper only returns40. This loop will start and continue.And maybe the reality is there justaren't any more blog posts on theinternet about this. Well, your modelfinds a creative workaround by maybechanging one of the filters in how itpitched the first thing. and it lets yougo from 40 to 50 technicallyaccomplishing what you were looking fordespite the fact that it is afundamentally different process. Nowyou're using maybe a different set offilters and then although it didn't work100% it worked 80% the model will thengive you a notification or ping you orsomething to be like hey this mostlyworked know if this filter is okay too.So then you provide some feedback orwhatever and then it actually cementsthe fact that this filter is okay toopreventing it from ever happening again.And in that way every cycle will leavethe system a lot more robust andreliable than it was before. So, as abusiness owner, somebody that's beendoing stuff like this for the betterpart of the last decade, I like thinkingabout agents and agentic workflows asbasically many employees. And inbusiness, when you hire a bunch ofpeople, you quickly realize that you canbin human beings into two camps. Youcould have employee A, who I'm going toconsider the blocker, and you can haveemployee B, who I'm going to considerpretty self-capable. So, in thesituation of employee A, anytime thatthey have a problem, and I've hired alot of people like this, that problem isnow your problem. So, hey boss, I trieddoing XYZ, couldn't make it happen.Could you help me with this? Meaning,this is the sort of person that cannotproceed without your intervention. Everytime they run into an issue, well, nowit's your issue as well. All work grindsto a halt, not just theirs. This is thesort of person that makes the samemistakes over and over and over again,doesn't seem to learn, and ultimatelyyou become the bottleneck for theirproductivity. They almost require you tomicromanage them in order to succeed.I'm sure there's some business ownershere that are watching this video. Thishappens very often and this is one oflike the easiest and simple tells thatyou probably shouldn't hire a personthat you know runs into issues and can'tactually self-mmitigate them. Employee Bon the other hand is a star performer.They encounter the same problems butthey have a simple SOP. The SOP is welleven if I don't know how to solve theproblem. I'm going to try on my ownfirst and so they'll only escalate whenit's absolutely necessary. They respectyour time. They document solutions whenthey run into them that your team sothat your team never ever hits the sameissue twice. They make a a statement inyour Slack. Hey guys, ran into XYZproblem. Just wanted you all to knowthat you could fix this by doing XYZsolution. Sometimes they even run aquick session to teach others what theylearned. Now, if I gave you a choicebetween these two, which one would youchoose? Obviously, you'd choose employeeB. And I think most business ownerswould too. Well, self annealing agenticworkflows behave like employee B. Theydon't behave like employee A. And so,we're giving them a level of autonomythat I think a lot of people previouslywould have considered insane.But I think the definition of insane isgoing to change pretty quickly as thesemodels get more and more intelligent.How do you actually enable this coolprocess? It really just boils down to asmall set of instructions and a prompt.You just add to your cloud MD, GeminiMD, agents MD, whatever a key thing thatjust changes its opinion uh essentiallylike the default mode of problemsolving. And the default mode of problemsolving with these programming agents isusually, hey, if I can't do something,return it to the user and ask them whatthey'd like me to do. which makes sensebecause for the most part this thesesorts of models are used predominantlyin like enterprise coding applicationsnow where like a small change canactually result in a big downstreamproblem but like if we're buildingsimple agentic workflows that aremodular and like unit testable uh andthen we're just using them in our IDElike that doesn't apply to us.So all we say is something along thelines of hey when you encounter an errorfirst diagnose it then fix it thenupdate your scripts and directives tohandle similar errors in the future. NowI always add is something like try superduper hard before escalating to theuser. What happens over time is theinitial workflow will look verydifferent on the initial implementationthan it does you know several weekslater. Retry logic in instances whereone-off failures occur will be addedautomatically. It'll do things like umself retry loops. It'll do things likeum if you guys are in the programmingspace, you'll know there's stuff likeexponential backoff.There's various forms of error handlinglike logging and so on and so forth. Andbecause it is hyper optimized to programreally well and understands these thingsoutside of the box, it'll just do themfor you. Which means edge cases that younever anticipated get handled as youragent encounters them. Efficiencyimprovements occur organically. Youknow, bulk endpoints, parallelization,multiple workers. If there's like a arequest that you made initially in yourdirective, I want this to occur under 5minutes after you run this every singletime. Just make sure to like see howlong it took. If it takes more than 5minutes, IDate solutions. If you havesimple little blockers in there ordecision or router points uh in there,agents will naturally do a lot of thisstuff for you, which is really cool. Andthen obviously you can also just ask,"Hey, make this thing better. Make thisthing better. Make this thing better.Make this thing better." In this way,your system continuously optimizesitself without any form of ongoingintervention. Uh which is the coolestthing ever in practice. That said, whenyou guys start getting really deep intoself- analing and you have workflowsthat do a lot of their work themselves,safety becomes a much bigger portion ofthe conversation than it ever wasbefore. Like with N8N and Make.comworkflows, the biggest potential issuewas basically that you just like turnedit on and you forgot to turn it off andthen it just continued consuming yourcredits or operations or whatever longerthan you realistically wanted it to,which charges costs and so on and soforth. But most APIs, most systems, andmost automation platforms now have somesort of built-in detection for this, orat least thresholds that you could set.So, it's not that big of a deal. Butwith fully autonomous AI, especially AIthat were proposing giving totalbypassed permission access to a system,safety becomes much more important. Iwas just reading this thread the otherday where somebody let Gemini basicallyrun autonomously for I think it was like2 days or something like that and youknow it checked in and it had some coollittle workflow loop where it did thisbut then when they went back to it theyrealized that they didn't put it in acontainer. They basically gave it fullsystem access and then it like deletedtheir whole like C or D drive. Anybodythat's in the know, you delete yourwhole CR D drive, your computer'sbasically screwed. You know, you have todo like a fresh install. So that's onyour server, right? The thing is you'realso giving this thing access to theinternet. And so if you have cookies orAPI keys or whatever, I'm sure you canimagine even if there's like a 0.1%risk. If you just stack up that 0.1%over the course of a very long period oftime, okay, this is just uh let's sayyou know 99.9 raised to the 1,000operations. At the end of this process,there is only a 36% chance that themodel will actually do what youinitially intended it to do. Despite thefact that on an individual basis, everystep was 99.9% um secure and logical.The more steps you have, the basicallythe larger those error bars become likeI've drawn a few times now. So, whatthis means is we really do have to addat least some sort of uh uh guard railtowards the model so that it doesn'tscrew things around completely. Now,there are a few simple ones that I do.My processes are never a thousand steps,right? I mean, I might be dealing with afive or 10step process. So, I typicallydon't have to go much further than this,but if you want really autonomouslongunning agents, um you need todevelop what are called harnesses forthem, which I cover later. Butbasically, here are four things that Iwould always do. I would always ask themodel to confirm beyond making API callsabove a cost threshold. So, a lot ofAPIs have the ability to check usage.So, I'd actually add like a little stepin there that says, "Hey, make sure tocheck the usage. If you've spent morethan, you know, $5 in the last like fewminutes, then you should not continuedoing this. You should let me know, sendme a notification, whatever. Hey, nevermodify credentials or API keys unless Iexplicitly tell you to." That's valuablebecause a lot of the time it'll dothings like reformat your API key.Sometimes it'll delete API keys that itthinks it doesn't need anymore.Sometimes, you know, that'll be a bigpain in your ass because you have to goback to the platform then reinstitute anAPI key. Never remove secrets out of ENVfiles or hardcode them into thecodebase. Models are really good at thisalready, but I always just like havingthis explicit because if I try and sharesomething with somebody at any point intime and it has like my enthropic APIkey or whatever, then these guys now ownmy ass. And finally, although this doeseventually run into a limit, I have themodel log all self modifications as achange log at the bottom of thedirective. What this does is itbasically allows me to take a look atany point in time be like, "Okay, solike what was the sequence of of events?What was the order of operations?"essentially. Um, I do this in likeGitHub format. So, it's sort of like acommit if you guys know what that means.And it's a really simple just like oneparagraph. Uh, well, a lot of the timeit's just like a one sentenceexplanation of the changes that we made,how the changes worked and whatever. Andthe reason why this is valuable isbecause like if you're not using versioncontrol like a lot of people will not beusing uh and I know that for a fact atleast you have like a change log thatthe model can use to go through and seehm before this I was doing X and thatwas working okay. Then I tried doing Yand Y is working not so good. So let'smove back to X. You should also justaccept that some