have yourGoogle workspace set up. Internal isonly available if you have a Googleworkspace. But in this case, I'm goingto hit external. And contactinformation. I'm going to use the samehere. Hit next. Check on that and hitcontinue. And we can go on create. Allright. So the next step, I want to hitthe create oath client. And whatessentially we're doing here is thatwe're creating a project even thoughit's not a real project. Google justlikes to use this as a structure toidentify and keep track of the oathclients that people create. Soessentially where what we want to dohere is we want to pick application typeweb application and in the name we'regoing to choose nan demo kk again andwe're going to leave this as is andwe're going to add an authorize toredirect URLs here and where we're goingto get this URL is from our workflowor run our credential here and click oncopy and go back to ourGoogle console. Paste that and hitcreate. So now we have the client ID.We're going to copy that. We're going togo back to our workflow here. So clientID, we're going to paste that in. Goback to our console here. And what wewant to do is to add a client secret.And we're just going to copy that. Goback to our work and paste the clientsecret in. So just before we hit sign inwith Google here, which will activatethe connection, we're going to head backto our Google Cloud Console and go tobranding and scroll down to authorizedomains. So in this case, what we wantto do, we want to add an authorizeddomain, which is editn.cloud.We're going to hit save. And the otherthing we're going to do is to type indrive in the search bar and hit GoogleDrive API because we want to enable thisAPI here. And of course, we're going tohave to enable Gmail API as well assheet and docs as well. But in thiscase, we're going to just enable thedrive and we're going to try it out. Andonce you've enabled the drive API, thelast thing you want to do is head overto audienceand essentially publish the app. Allright, we're going to confirm that andhead back to our workflow here and hitsign in with Google. and you're going tobe redirected to a Google signin pageand you're going to have to click youremail and it's going to say Googlehasn't verified this app, but it's okaybecause it's you who's launching this.And once you've done that, there's goingto be a couple permissions that you needto run on the credentials. So, we'regoing to select all of these and we'regoing to hit continue. And there you go.Connection successful. So, we're goingto head back to our workflow here. Asyou can see, account is connected. Andonce you've connected your account,you'll be able to see the list offolders that you have on your drive. Soin this case there's only one folder inmy drive which is KK test folder. So I'mgoing to hit that and essentially we canwatch for file created for example rightso anytime a file is uploaded it's goingto trigger this. So we're going to hitfetch test event. I didn't upload anyfile so it says no data with the currentfilter. So this is the folder righthere. I'm going to open that up. I'mgoing to upload a dummy file, which isan S SOP file. And there we go. So,we're going to go back to workflow hereand rerun the test again. And as you cansee, now it's fetching the data of thefile that has been uploaded. So, cool.For the other nodes such as GoogleSheet, Google Docs, what you need to dois just to go back to your Google CloudConsole and essentially enable your APIsby typing in the Google notes or theGoogle tool that you want to use. Forexample, in this case, Google SheetsAPI. You want to enable that and you cango back and connect that on your editend and you're good to go. All right,I'll see you in the next section. Inthis section, we're going to build asimple workflow of an AI research agentthat goes out to the internet and searchfor the latest AI news and send itacross to you via email and at the sametime log those particular headlines sothat the next day the workflow is goingto check against the logs so that itdoesn't repeat the same headlines.And this is a workflow that's going tobe super useful in this day and age whenAI news pops up every other day.So this is what the entire workflow willlook like. We start off with a scheduledtrigger node which is preset to acertain time of each day. Let's say 9:00a.m. And then this goes to a Perplexitysearch. So as you know, Perplexity isone of the leading search AI agent outthere. And we're going to use that tosearch the latest news or headlines thatis pertaining to AI development. Andthen we're going to kick the output to achecking agent. And what this does is itdips into the Google sheet which locksall the previous headlines of the newsto make sure that it doesn't repeat thesame headlines.And after that, it's going to send asummary of this AI news and send it outto the intended recipient via Gmail. Andthe final step is going to log thoseheadlines to make sure that the AI agentstays up to date with those logs.Now, let's build it together. The firstthing you want to do is introduce thetrigger note, which in this case is ascheduled trigger note to kickstart theentire workflow. With the scheduletrigger node, you can choose what thetrigger intervals that you want. In thiscase, it could be days, hours, minutes,or seconds or even longer than that. Aswe want this workflow to kickstart everysingle day, we want to choose days. Andthe days in between triggers, we want tokeep that as one because we want it tosend out at every single day. Thetrigger hour is something that we canchoose based on preference. And in thiscase, we're going to choose 9:00 a.m.because we like the news to be deliveredto us in the morning. And we're going tokeep the trigger at minute zero. Andwe're going to hit execute step just topopulate the data. And there you go. Wehave set our first trigger node. Now thesecond note that we want to introducehere is a perplexity note. And usuallywhen it comes to using thirdparty tools,what you typically do is go to the APIdocumentation of the third party toolsand make a HTTP request towards thoseAPI endpoints. However, in this case,Perplexity has a native node that liveswithin NN which you can choose from andis easy to use. In this case, I'm goingto choose message model note fromPropexity.And I already have my Propexity accountcredential set up. But I'm just going towalk you through very quickly how youcan easily do that. So in this case,you're going to pick the dropown andclick on create new credential. And asyou can see is as simple as keying inthe API key from Plexity.What you could do is go to Plexity.aiand in the main dashboard, go to youraccount and click on settings. And undersettings, if you look at the lefth handside tab, you want to hit API keys. Andyour API keys page may not look likethis because you do need to set up yourAPI billing before being able to accessthese keys. You can easily do that byheading to API billing and putting inyour credit card information and toppingout the credits at a minimum of $5.But in this case, I've already goneahead and do so. What we can do here isto hit the create key button and it'sgoing to create an API key ready for usto copy. Now head back to the workflowand copy the API keys into the field.Hit save and you have your Plexityaccount registered to NAD. And there yougo. This says connection testedsuccessfully and your Plexity account isconnected to your NADN. And you onlyneed to set up the credentials one time.Afterwards, you can simply pick from theaccount credentials that you've set upafter you've connected your account oryour API keys in this case. What you cando is to choose the operation that youwant perplexity to carry out. In thiscase, it's a messenger model. And themodel that we want to work with is theSona Pro in this case. And there areother models that you can choose fromsuch as the Sona Deep Research or SonaReasoning Pro. And each of these aredependent on the use case that you wantto achieve. The deep research is goingto give you a large size of output richwith data information and is perfect ifyou're looking to do a very detailedresearch about a topic. But in thiscase, because we're only looking for theheadlines of the AI development news, wewant to choose Zona Probe. And as withthe other AI agent nodes, the typicalcomponents that you have is the userprompt as well as the system prompt. Andyou can do that by adding a message andchanging the user to a system. And thereis a slight difference between theworkings of a perplexity node and thoseof the other AI agent nodes. Andspecifically, one of those is thatperplexity will require the systemmessage to come first before the usermessage. So, what you want to do is toswap this around and choose the systemprompt as the first prompt and the userprompt as a second. Now, within thesystem prompt, here's a prompt that I'vecome up with. So, it says, "You are anexpert AI research analyst specializedin tracking and summarizing the latestdevelopments in artificial intelligence.Your task is to deliver concise andup-to-date news summaries, focus on newAI model releases, researchbreakthroughs, and strategic moves bykey AI players. So that's the systempromp. As for the user prom, what I wantto do here is to prompt it effectivelyso that it summarizes and extracts themost relevant information or news forme. And I'm going to blow this up sothat's easier for you guys to read. Andhere I go. It says find and summarizethe most recent AI news within the last24 hours. For reference, today is, asyou can see, this is intentionally leftblank because I want to drag thevariables of today. And in order to findthat, you would go to variables andcontext. And this is applicable forevery single workflow. You're going tohave a default variable of the currenttime as well as the current date. And inthis case, I want to drag the value orthe variables of the current date andput it here. And this will dynamicallychange the value depending on what thedate is. And so you can see on the righthand side it says today is date timetoday's date. And the reason why I wantto do that is because a lot of the timesthe AI is prone to hallucinate thetiming of the day. So when you tell itto get the most recent news, it doesn'thave context on what today is. So whenyou tell it to get the most recent newsin the past 24 hours, often times itmight hallucinate the day to be a daywithin last year or the year before. Sothis way we ensure that the AI hascontext of what today is and be able tofocus on news that are coming in fromthe past 24 hours. And also I've addedin to make sure that it prioritizesresearch breakthroughs and keyannouncements by organizations likeOpenAI, Anthropic, Google, Meta,Mistral, XAI and Hunking Face. And thisis just some guardrails to make surethat it focuses on the news that aremost interesting to me which is thedevelopment and the release of newmodels of AI. Okay. So now that thesystem and user message has been set,the last thing I want to do is to go toadd option and click on the dropownbutton and perplexity has a very neatfeature which is the recency filter. Sowe can set the search recency filter tojust within the day. So in this caseit's going to restrict the search towithin the most recent news that havebeen put out there. Okay, now we'reready to execute the step. And as youcan see, the output is various types ofdata that has to do with the researchoutput as well as some of the relevantinformation regarding the search. I'mnot going to go through each of thesevariables. But what is interesting to uswould be the number of citations here,which means are the number of newsoutlets and links that it has found tobe relevant to your search and also thesearch results.And finally, the output content which isin natural language where perplexitywill respond to you and say there havebeen several notable AI developments andannouncement for the last 24 hoursparticularly concerning major strategicmoves and those reinvestments.And what we want to do here is to pinthe data so that we don't have to rerunthat every single run is going to use upthe perplexity API token. We want tomake sure that we're being costeffective and prudent about it. The samething with the schedule trigger. I'mgoing to pin this data so that everytime we run through the workflow, it'snot going to exhaust a new API token andprovide new data. After the flexitynode, what I want to introduce is theformatter agent or in this case thechecking agent. We're going to useOpenAI in this case and we're going topick a simple message and model actionas part of the workflow. And as you cansee, the output of the perplexity node,which was the previous node, becomes theinput of the OpenAI node. And again, Ialready have my account all set up aswe've covered in the previous sections.So, you should have the same account setup here as well. And we're going toleave the resources as text operation asmessage and model. And we're going topick a model here. In this case, we'regoing to pick a GPT4. That should be enough to checkagainst the log. And just a reminder ofwhat we're doing here with this node iswe want this node to check against aspecific Google sheet log of pastheadlines that has been recorded. Andthe reason we do that is because someheadlines are going to be reportedtwice, three times, four times, orrepeatedly depending on how big theheadlines is. If we don't add thisparticular note within the workflow,what happens is it's going to reportsome of the headlines again and againthinking that it's a new headlines inthe past 24 hours. We're going to renamethis newschecking agent. Now for the user prompt,what I'm going to do is I'm going togive it a set of prompt here and I'mgoing to blow it up so that you can seeit says here's today's AI news list fromPerplexity.So I'm going to add the summarizedcontent from the previous perplexitynode which is under choices undermessage and the variable is calledcontent and we're going to just drag anddrop as you can see in the right handside this is the whole chunk of thesummarized news headlines that came fromperplexityand then later on I'm going to askplease cross check the news against thepast news lock sheet and removeduplicatesSo this is the name of the news locksheet that I'm going to create later onso that they can compare and checkagainst such that there won't be anyduplicate news on the output. I've alsoadded here that we should ensure eachitem has a clear impactful one to twosenses summary. So there's a bit ofsummarization task here. Also after eachsummary include the full unfold sourceURL. This is to make sure that you'reinterested in that particular news. Youcan click on that URL and get access towhere it's been cited from. Use bold tohighlight company names or majorupdates. This is just for readabilityand add spacing between news items forreadability as well. And at the end,I've added tip perplexities output newsare all duplicates from the past newslock sheet. Respond appropriately withno notable AI development news in thepast 24 hours. is just to make sure thatit's only generating content when thereare new headlines and not recyclingheadlines again and again. So that isthe user prom. Meanwhile, we need to adda system prompt. In this case, we choosean add message and we're going to choosea system message or a system prompt. Andin the system prompt, we're going to doa simple prompt. And I'm going to blowit up to say you are an AI news formatand your role is to process, check andclean AI news result fetch fromperplexity to ensure readability andthat past headlines are not repeated.I'm going to add when checkedagainstGoogle sheet tool named pastand use lock. So this is just to ensurethat it knows that the tool exists andthat you're supposed to use that tocounteract the news headlines and makesure they're not repeated. Okay, cool.So now we are going to add a tool herewhich is essentially the Google sheettool. All right, click that. And I'vealready have my Google Sheets accountconnected, but we've covered how toconnect your Google Sheets or GoogleDocs or your entire Google accountthrough a Google Cloud console in theprevious section. So, you should havethe same setup. Under the tooldescription, we're going to setautomatically because we're going to letthe AI decide when to use this tool. Atthe same time, we're going to have todetermine some of the configurationhere. And under resource, we're going towant to to refer to a sheet within thedocument. And the operation is to getrows because we're not trying to createnew sheets. We're not trying to updatethe sheets. We're simply trying to checkagainst the sheets if the headlines arerepeated. So, we're going to use getrows. Now, we need to fetch a document.But just before we do that, we need tocreate the actual sheet where all theinformation of the past headlines aregoing to be logged. So I've created asheet here called the passi news log andit's a simple sheet with a date columnand a headlines column. So the date isgoing to correspond to the date of theheadlines. And the headlines basicallyis going to say the content of theheadlines in one or two sentences. Nowlet's go back to the workflow. Once youhave the sheet set up, you can then findthe sheet just by selecting from listand clicking on the right one which ispass AI news lock. And then later on youcan choose from the sheet the correctsheet in this case which is sheet one. Ionly have one sheet in the document. Sothat's the correct one. You should beable to see nowand that's it. And just before we go, wewant to rename this to pass AI new lawbecause we want to make sure that the AIknows that this is