How can you make money from OpenClaw?Like, how can you spin up these OpenClawinstances, these sub agents, thesedigital employees that can go out andmake you money while you sleep? Is iteven possible? Well, in today's episode,I brought on Nick, and he shows atactical tutorial for how to spin upmultiple Open Claw machines in a virtual[music] instance, how you can beautomating tasks on Upwork [music] andthese boring business automations, andhow you can actually make money fromOpenClaw. If this doesn't get yourcreative juices [music] flowing for thefuture of SAS, how people are going tomake money and how to actually use OpenClaw [music] from not just a cute littleuse cases, but actually money-muh opportunities, then I don't know[music] what will. I had such a goodchat with Nick. It got my creativejuices flowing. I think it will yours,too. And this is, I think, one of Nick'sfirst podcast. So give him a like andcomment to juice him up because heshared that sauce. [music][music]>> I couldn't be more excited to have Nickon the pod. He's one of my go-to peoplewhen I have questions about OpenClaw.Nick, by the end of this episode, whatare people going to learn? Yeah, peopleare going to learn that OpenClaw is morethan just a personal assistant. You canactually deploy this into businesses.You could drive actual businessoutcomes, generate revenue off ofOpenClaw as an opportunity. Um, andyeah, we're seeing it on X like peoplewho are deploying OpenClaw for um kindof executives or um individuals who aresuper busy. uh they're making thousandsof dollars, you know, setting OpenClawup, getting it up and running for thesepeople and managing it for them. So, Ithink there's a huge opportunity hereand yeah, just excited to jump in. Cool.And before we get going, I need you tomake a commitment to me and to theperson listening or watching, which is Ineed you not to hold back any sauce. Idon't want to know just about theopportunity. I want to know how arepeople doing it tactically. And by theend of this episode, what I want is forpeople to take away like I want peopleto know how they can actually make adollar from this. And is that acommitment, Nick, that you are willingto make to to us?>> Absolutely. Absolutely. I I'm not goingto hold back anything. I I'm I've infact I think OpenClaw is is a is a toolthat allows us to be able to do thethings that we have always been able tomake money from like automation with AIbut do it even better and I'm going toshow you how to get it all set up so youcan do that and the wedge to get going.So>> let's do it.>> Yeah. So I guess jumping right in as faras like getting set up with OpenClaw.You can see here you know this is Orgo.This is our startup. You don't have touse Orgo to get started with OpenCloud.Just full disclaimer, this is what I'musing. And what I'm going to do is Ihave a project here. Uh you can see Ihave a couple a couple projects and Ihave Greg. I set you up a project. Ihope I hope you uh enjoy your, you know,five computers. Um, and so you canimagine, Greg, you, let's say you're abusiness owner and you have a busy life,you know, um, you got all you have thepodcast going on. You have all thesebusinesses you're running, the agency,the idea browser, all this stuff, andand you need you need help automatingsome stuff. So, what I'm going to do isI'm going to come in. I'm Scrappy Nick.I'm going to come in and I'm going tohelp automate some things in your inyour business, in your life, um, youknow, as a busy executive. and I'm goingto get you set up with OpenClaw. So,when you open up a computer here, youcan see I have it open. This is the theClawbot um computer I made for you. If Iactually just type in OpenClaw TUI, thiswill open up OpenClaw in the terminal.And you can see I I actually alreadystarted like, hey, I'm Greg Eisenberg.And it's all ready to get set up. Andso, actually, what I could do is um Icould invite you to this project. Andthen you would be able to do this aswell, like in your terminal, you'd beable to spin this up and now you'retalking to Open Claw. So, um, super easyto get set up. Once again, you don'thave to use Orgo. You could use whateveryou want. You could use, I know, uh,Manis just dropped their, uh, their ownversion of like one-click deploymentOpenClaw. Um, also, Kimmy launched theirversion as well. X is down right now, sowe can't actually pull it up on Twitteror anything, but, uh, Kimmy launchedtheir version. And so, uh, there's allthese options as far as getting started.You could use a Mac Mini, whatever. So,the key here, Greg, with OpenClaw andactually creating money from it is tohave the wedge to know what is thespecific use case in a person's businessthat we're going to automate like firstbecause for when when you see open callon Twitter, it's very much a personalassistant. It's exciting. It's fun. Butall the demos that go viral, includingme, I get it. I I'm I'm guilty of this,too. All the all the demos that go viralare a little bit, you know, kind oftoyish. They're a little flashy, but thethe real power is in finding the thingthat actually, you know, drives businessoutcomes, saves time for a business,finding that and and building theautomation around that. So, I havesomething running here. This is my openclaw doing looking up products for uh abusiness that I uh deployed for this isa a promotional distributorship.And what this is doing is it's lookingup products and actually downloading allthe product information and then likeparsing all that information. There'sall these reports it needs to downloadand then uploading that into a Zoho CRM.um so it can essentially you know createa central source of truth for thisclient. So this is a perfect examplehere of like actually creating a agentyou that openclaw deploys to be able toautomate something end to end. Um sojust just to recap are we all good sofar?>> Yeah so a few things I I just want totalk about. So one thing is when youshowed you know that orgo screen you didyou had like five machines running. Sowhat's interesting is you know I've gotmy Mac Mini going you know I've got oneinstance so using something like this iscool um because you can have multipleinstances going right and you can seethem all in one screen in one view. Sothat's really cool that that was sort ofan aha moment for me.>> Yeah absolutely. Yeah, it's likeeveryone, you know, as far as where youdeploy your your main open claw, you cansee here I like I starred the main one.>> Uh, and so that's like you could havethat wherever. But what people don'trealize is openclaw can spawn sub agents>> and I think this is going to be huge forpeople who start like right right nowwe're at the phase of having one openclaw. It's going to happen quickly.you're already seeing on it on Twittermemes about like, oh, what if you havea, you know, 10 Mac minis or all the MacStudios are being bought out. So, thisis happening fast where you're going towant 10 open claws, you know, 100 openclaws. Right now, you could have oneopen claw and just have it spawn up to,I think, eight sub aents and each subaent could have its own computer. Andyou could do this like this is why thisis like kind of where orgo shines is youcould spin up multiple computers for,you know, each individual sub agent ofyour open claw. And in this case here, Ihad it looking on Upwork for actualthings that we could automate withOpenClaw. This is like a little hackhere as far as like, well, I want tomake money with OpenClaw. Well, uh, oh,I don't know any any business that Icould reach out to that could automatestuff for. A great place to start isUpwork because there's jobs on Upworkthat are literally posted. They'rethey're asking you. They're like, "Iwant to pay 500, a,000, 1,500, 3,000,$20,000 for this AI workflow, and youcan I spawned sub, it went viral onTwitter. I spawned sub agents to go findall these jobs and then build out littledemos for each of them, and and then wepicked the best one, and okay, let'slet's apply for that proposal withthat." So, that's a little tidbit thereon on Upwork and all of that.So, which is which is kind of hilariousbecause I mean Upwork,you know, is designed for human beingsto complete work, right? It's notdesigned for machines, let alonemultiple machines to complete work. Um,but I mean, as long as the the qualityof work is good, um, you know, customersgoing to be happy, right?>> Yeah. And I think like it's good to, youknow, it's good to treat it as a as astarting point. like you know if you cansave time preparing a proposal for a jobon Upwork it's like um what is thatworth you know and if you could do justa 100x volume uh what is that worth sothere's a couple things on that of likethe parallelization of work withopenclaw so there's like could you have10 open claws working on a given taskand it breaks up that tasks into 10subtasks and so each open claw does oneof those subtasks that's one way ofhaving parallelization but Another wayis to have 10 open claws working on thesame task uh just 10 different instancesof it. And that was kind of like what Iwas doing here. It's you know fourdifferent instances of the one open clawthat you know or four different openclaws doing the same thing of looking updifferent jobs on Upwork that they couldapply to. So that's kind of aninteresting topic there. Umbut yeah, so like as far as OpenCloudgoes, it's it's it's uh a hugeopportunity. I just want to like throwthis in here. Andre and Horowitz talksabout computer use agents. I view openclaw as a computer use agent. You know,you're giving an agent a computer andit's able to do it's able to use thatcomputer. It's like it's a computer useagent. But that's half the story. Theother half of the story is for it to beable to like click around actuallyoperate a graphical user interface onlike le legacy softwares and systems.And so um you can imagine like you knowin here this this automation I builtthis is navigating a legacy platform forthis client that doesn't have any cleanAPIs and it's able to click in downloadreports and actually you know be theuniversal API uh to be able to solveproblems that you couldn't previouslysolve without computer use agents. So Ithink there's a huge opportunity hereand and Horwitz they talk about it andthey say we believe that the properly uhto properly verticalize computer useagents and assist companies in adoptingit will be a major area of explorationfor startups and [snorts] this is likethis to me this screams openclaw youknow can you create a vertical use casefor openclaw for a business and actuallyassist that company in adopting it Ithink that's that's the huge opportunityhere umSo, going back to this like workspace wehave set up for you. Um, you know, withwith with all the people setting upOpenClaw, you could set it up as easyas, you know, I invite Greg to thisworkspace. I create him a new computer.We could just do it now.>> OpenClaw 2.I select how much RAM. Let's do let's doeight gigs. Launch that. [snorts]Open that up. And then all we need nowto get you set up is to get the um letme get the the curl command for openclaw. I copy that from their website andthen as this computer loadswe'll be able to then literally justpaste it into the terminaland once I see the interface pop upboom. Okay. So now I'm going to hitenterand now we're off to the racesinstalling open claw. So like it's aseasy as that. And I think there's thisis this in and of itself as like aworkspace where you can invite peopleand get them set up with openclaw orclawed code. I think this is like a hugea huge opportunity as well of like justthere are executives right now that arelike reaching out to me like law firms,insurance companies, they're like canyou can I just like pay you to teach mehow to use this stuff? So like thatthat's its own whole thing as well asfar as like if you're savvy enough toeven know how to install open claw andget it set up in the first place. Um[snorts] I just think there's a hugeopportunity around like just helpingexecutives businesses adopt it. Um soyeah you can see it's as easy as this toget set up.And then as far as like what specificthings can we can we automate withOpenClawthere's a couple it takes a little bitof a designs thinking approach. So whenyou go into a business let's say youfind a project on Upwork and you want toyou want to automate that with opencall. Let's say you go into a businessand you're talking to the executive thedecision maker and it's clear that theyhave things that need to be automated.Well, as far as like design thinkinggoes, like you need to have a a clearway of like first mapping like all thedifferent possibilities. You can seehere, this is something I did in thepast of like there's all these differentthings that you could automate and youwant to map them off two very simplemetrics. What is the value that we cancreate by automating this thing andwhat's the relative effort, cost andtime? And so we ultimately want to startwith, okay, we want to automate thingswith Open Claw that are high value andlow effort, cost, and time. And that'slike your your lowhanging fruit. Um, andso you start there. And so like for forthis client, this was like that this wasthat this was like, okay, we're lookingup products on this website. We'redownloading them. We're parsing all theinformation. Uh, that's the lowhangingfruit. So start with the design thinkingapproach of like okay simplest fastestto deploy and then you need to map outlikethe systems design around how like howis this thing going to be automatedright so for this for this client she'slike okay I send an email to a to aclient of hers right she sends an emailto a client and she has a presentationlink with all these products okay andand all those products she needs to lookall of them up and get all theinformation on them and then upload theminto Zoho. So then your next step afteridentifying the opportunity is toliterally like map this out. I useFigma, you can use whatever, but map outthe the actual workflow process of likeokay step one, step two, step three.What is this automation going to looklike tiptoail so that we can do thewhole thing? Um because with open cloudcomputer use now is now you can do thatyou can do you could do things from tipto tail. It's not like um you know itused to be where you'd have to like gointo a website and click a button andthen it'd be able to do some 50% of thewhole thing but then you'd have to copythat and paste that somewhere else anddo it on your own. Like we can do ittiptoail. Um,so quick recap,install open claw into a computer,identify the next, identify the thelowhanging fruit opportunities, thehighest value opportunities, and thenbegin to map out what that even lookslike to begin with. Couldn't you, youknow, sort of, this is meta, butcouldn't you use Open Claw to actuallydo some of thepriorit prioritization on the autoautomations and actually, I mean, you asa human being did the Figma, butcouldn't you actually just use the openclaw or cloud code or something likethat to to help you with that? So, forexample, like if you go back to the theFigma>> Mhm.Likeyou could walk into a business andbasically say, "Hey, I want to figureout uh what we could automate here andyou do customer interviews withdifferent people on the team. You recordthose customer interviews. You get thetranscripts. You upload the transcriptsand then you say, "Hey, based on that,then you're like, you can actually say,you know, you give this as a referenceimage." basically say like, "Hey, I wantto figure out which which automationopportunities have the highest amount ofvalue, lowest amount of effort, cost,and time. Give me the top three and thencreate, you know, Figma." And I thinkthere's like a Figma MCP even uh thatyou can use and you can say like, "Hey,like can you map this thing out based onthese customer transcripts?" Does thatmake does that make sense or am I>> Oh, absolutely. Yeah.>> No, that's that's that's the way to doit. Like I whenever I do any kind ofcall with a client or like potentialcustomer, oh my gosh, Gemini for uh forGoogle Meet is amazing. you have it taketake all the notes and then actuallythat's that's how I even got because Idon't know about I don't know about youGreg but sometimes when you're in thesecalls you kind of for you you know thisthis this industry you know you're in anew industry you're helping thiscustomer you don't understand theirdomain expertise the lingo and so yougot to go back and and like okay likewhat what was it that they said and sohave the granola or Gemini notes orwhatever and then literally ask it tolike okay what's the stepby-stepworkflow and then map it out it justhelps me to map it out visually. Uh butyou could literally ask it, yeah, likeyou said, um based on this transcript,what is the the automation workflow looklike? You know, step by step.>> And if you don't want to use, you know,Figma, you can also even say uh youknow, do output in mermaiduh code and then you can use the mermaidcode and insert that into an Excala drawor a TL draw or something like that. Souh a little pro tip there.>> Nice. Nice. Yeah. Yeah. And the Yeah.And the Figma MCP is pretty cool, too.Yeah. Definitely check that out. So,>> yeah. So, then once you figure out whatthe workflow is, right? Um this is wherelike you have to actuallyum be able to know okay how much howmuch can I really ask like how much canI just say like to openclaw right nowhey like build this like hey build thisthing and