MCP server you want to add. Once youdo add them, they get added to what'scalled the registry, which if I lsthe Docker MCP directory, you can seethe registry file is right there.registry.yaml. Let's look inside thatreal quick.And there is simply a reference to ourinstalled servers. And it's when youactually install it and register it thatit shows up here. Now, we're not goingto be able to do that through the guey.So, we have to add ours manually here.It's actually pretty easy. We're goingto do nano or whatever you want to useto edit this file. And at the verybottom, using the same format, keepingeverything lined up, we will add ourserver. It's called dice according to myprompt here. And we put that ref thing.Crl + xy. Enter to save. That's all wegot to worry about. And let me tell you,uh, we're almost done. I was going tosay we're done, but we're not done yet.We do need to edit our cloud MCP serverconfig. We're going to change it to looksomething like this. I'm just going tocopy this and paste it into my cloudconfig here. And there's a few thingshappening. Notice it's still running theDocker MCP gateway command. It's justrunning a few more options. And Iactually need to change two things here.First, I'll need to make sure I changemy home directory to be the exact homedirectory I'm using. It's going to mountthat as a Docker volume. And look,cursor is like, let me help you out.Thank you, cursor. And then down here,you can notice that with the Docker MCPcommand, we can run more than onecatalog. And that's the secret saucehere. We're referencing the main Dockercatalog. And then also our custom one,which I need to change that name becauseI did not name it custom. I named it mycustom catalog.That should be it, I think. And thennotice we're referencing this registrythat we already edited. And that shouldbe all we have to worry about. Going tosave this file. And I'm going to launchClaude. Fingers crossed we get noerrors. Claude, don't disappoint me,buddy. Here we go. You'll get a scaryerror if it doesn't like it because ittries to test the containers. So far sogood. Click on my tools. Go down to myMCP toolkit gateway and see if my toolsare there. Come on. Flip a coin. Thatlooks nice. Oh, come on. Come on. Comeon. Roll. There's all the stuff. There'sall the tools. Cool. It's showing up.The MCP tools are available, but do theywork? Let's try it out. Now, the read mefile gave me some options to say or try.Okay, let's roll a 2d6for me using the dice tool.Come on. Come on. I will give youpermission, buddy. You got this.It worked. Yes. Oh, let's do somethingsimple like flip a coin using the dicetool. Man, so cool. I can generate D andD stats. Let's try this.I don't play D and D, so I don't knowwhat that means. Oh my gosh, what's iteven doing? Well, that's cool eitherway, which I have no idea what'shappening, but it seems awesome. Okay,we got a simple MCP server out of theway, but what about something that is abit more complex? For example, I use atimer tool called toggle, which I use totrack how much time I'm using to scriptand and film. So, for example, right nowover here in my browser, I'm currentlyfilming and I've been doing that for 51minutes. Toggle has a great API, but noMCP server. I would like to use an MCPserver so I can chat with Claude orwhatever LLM I have and control mytimers or check in on my timers. Let'sdo that right now. So, back here at theprompt, I just got to describe what Iwant.I want to create a toggle MCP server.This willuse the toggle API. Now, I'm not goingto sit here and talk about this theentire time. You'll see what I write,but I'm having to make sure I answer allthese questions here.All right, that's what I want. I want itto do three things. Start a timer, stopa timer, and view existing timers. AndI'm just pasting the link to the toggleAPI documentation. Let's go find it.Okay, it should be able to figureeverything out past that. All right,Claude, new project for you. Go coffeebreak while I build this another MCPserver.I also have it programmed to ask anyquestions that aren't answered that itneeds to have answered to complete thistask. Now, remember, when you're workingwith AI, it's all about context. If youprovide it enough context, good contextfor what you want to do and you describeit well, you're going to have amazingresults. Okay, it finished. Same stepsas before with one minor difference. So,I'll do my Docker file. So, I'll createa new directory, add in all the files.All right. Now, I'll build that newserver.This is so cool. And then I'll need toadd my API key. Now, remember the coolthing about Docker MCP gateways, we canmanage our secrets with Docker.Remember, I haven't told you that yet.The Docker MCP gateway, it can help youmanage your secrets, things like APIkeys and tokens. Keep that stuff out ofyour code and nestled safely insideDocker MCP secrets. Anyways, back to me.Also, I explain more about Docker MCPgateways later in the video. As Imentioned before, you don't want to missthat part. So I'll do docker mcp secretlist or ls rather to see what we havejust our obsidian API key that we addedearlier in the guey but we can do itmanually here as well. So I'll do dockermcp secret and it's going to be set andmy toggle API token environment variableand then I'll add in my API key rightnow. Done. Secret set. Let's do ls oncemore to see if it's there. Yep, there itis. Now it's time for the catalog piece.Now I could make a new catalog. You canhave a bunch or I can just add this tomy existing catalog to make it easy. AndI think I'll just do that. So I'll grabjust the part I need, the toggle serveritself describing all of its tools. Andthen edit my custom catalogand add it right after dice. I thinkit's all lined up. Awesome. Crl + XYenter to save. And then we'll update ourregistry. adding that tool right belowdice.[Applause]Now, because that catalog is already inour Claude configuration, we don't haveto worry about it. We'll just restartClaude. And that should be all we haveto do. Fingers crossed. Here we go. I'mdoing this live. Like, what you saw wasreal. Everything past this point. Noerrors. Oh my gosh, that's so good.Okay, let's check our tools. The timerstuff might be at the bottom here. Ah,there it is. Start, stop, view, timers.Oh, okay. So, currently I'm filming andI have a timer for that. Do I have anycurrent timers right now? I'm not evengoing to tell it what tool to use. Letit figure it out. Come on. Come on. Ofcourse, buddy. Here you go.Yes, it's I almost spilled my coffee.Oh, no. I did. But it worked. I got toclean this up.You'd be surprised how often thishappens. Okay, now let's say um stopthat timer.Can it do it? No, you didn't. It totallydid. Okay, now restart it. Come on. Ohmy gosh, it did. That's so cool.Isn't that just the most insanelypowerful thing you've ever seen? You cando whatever you want. How about we builda hacking MCP? Yes, I'm going to showyou how to build right now a Kali Linuxhacking MCP. This one is interesting andwe won't need any special uh API stuff.We're just going to run a Kali Linuxcontainer, which is actually supportednow on a Mac. So, that's really cool.We're going to run it right here on ourmachine. And I've got a description herethat I've used. Let's see how well thisdoes. Okay, that should give it a lot ofinformation. Let's throw it in there andlet it go to work. Now, it may kick backon you because you're trying to build ahacking container, but if you frame itthe right way, it'll be fine usually.Okay, I like that. Happy authorizedtesting. It's done. Let's build it out.Same story as before. for we'll create anew directory, create all our files,build our container, which might take amoment. So, perfect time for I mean,well, you know, by this point. Tell youwhat, while you're sitting there, haveyou hacked the YouTube algorithm today?Let's make sure you do. Hit that likebutton, subscribe, notification bell,comment. You got to hack YouTube today.Ethically, of course.Okay, that actually was pretty fast,which makes me a little bit nervous, butwe'll see how it goes.right under our toggle server and editour registry.All right, it's done. I really hope thisworks. We're going to restart Claude.No errors. No errors. Come on. Come on.Okay, let's see if our Cali tools are inthere. We should see some pretty crazystuff in there. If it's all workingcorrectly. H, it's not there. What toolsam I looking for? There should be likean end mapap scan. Nothing. It hates me.Let's double check our work. Maybe itwants my secret set. That's why it'sfailing.I feel good this time.Yes. Okay. I just wanted the secret set.Okay, cool. Now, let's test some KaliLinuxscan on network 10.70.2.024.do a pretty quick one. Okay, we'reallowing the tool if this works. Oh mygoodness. Oh, there's a white list. DidI put in a white list myself? Oh, yes.Yes, yes, okay. Okay, it put in guardrails for me, Claude. Oh, all right.So dumb.Remove the white list stuff. I want thiswide open.put in guard railscan't stop me from hacking. Okay, I gotit to give me what I what I needed. Ithink I'll have to adjust the Dockerfile and the server. I'll just do themall. Who knows what this LLM changedrequirements is the same.Let's build it again. That should be it.I want restart Claude. Let's check ourtools. Make sure they're there. Therethey are. Okay. Again. Okay. Okay, I'mgoing to change it to make sure I'mrunning as root. Okay, that should doit. Building again. Restarting Claude.Come on. What the heck? Oh, the Dockerfile was screwing me up. Yeah, commentout the user.That's what it was. This is so dumb.Let's build it again.All right, better work this time.It's driving me nuts.Let's do a Docker PS. See if it'srunning. It's running, but it's onlyrunning while we're doing this. KellyLinux is being used right now by an LLM,by AI. I can talk to my hacking box withplain language. Hey, go hack that thing.And it does it. Now, while that'sscanning, I'm going to show you one I'vealready built using the exact samemethods we've used here so far. It's onmy MacBook. I want to show you this onebecause I've played with this one a lot.This will all be in the documentationbelow. Got a few more tools here. Let'stry this. It's just so crazy. We can dothis. All right. Doing an end mapapscan. This is so awesome. I finished inendmap not necto durb buster. And incase you're wondering, you can use allthese things with claw code as well.This one I don't know what's going onwith him. He's taking forever.So in case you're wondering, I'm usingthe DVWA web app. An app that'sintentionally insecure so you can tryand hack things. And there's a log of itright here. Me hitting it. Oh, cool.This one's working now. WordPress scan.WP scan. And dude, this thing's killingit.SQL map coming in. I'm like using AI tohack this from like three differentcomputers right now. This one finished.It found out what it was. Now, if you'relike me, you got to be wondering, how isthis all working? Like, are these MCPservers actually running as Dockercontainers? Are they running all thetime? If I run Docker PS right now, am Igoing to see containers running? No.Then what's happening? And are all MCPservers local like this? or are thereremote MCP servers? Let's talk aboutthat right now. We're about to get supernerdy. I hope you're ready for this.Let's dive in. Now, first thing I wantto show you is that whenever we'reactually engaging with an MCP serverhere with Docker Desktop, it's runningthose MCP server containersbriefly and then taking them down. Youwant to see? Watch. Let's do thiscommand. Hope it works on Mac. I haven'ttried this. do watch dash n0.5docker psbrew install watchdang.All right, we'll just run it while we'redoing stuff. Let's use claude to call atool and we'll just spam docker ps. UseAirbnb tool to find a house in Tokyo fora family of eight for two weeks startingOctober. Let's get our command ready.Allow once. Let's watch. Oh, wait. Iwasn't ready. Ah, here we go.It was too fast. I didn't catch it intime. We'll just use this watch commandhere or this while true loop. Ah,perfect.Let's see if it shows up now. Ah, thereit is. We briefly caught it. It's sofast. That took longer than I thought itwould be to track it. All that to say,every time we engage with an MCP server,a Docker container for the MCP server isspun up and spun down. They're notrunning all the time, only when we needthem, which is kind of cool. But that'sonly running an MCP server locally.There's actually other ways to accessMCP servers, specifically remote MCPservers. There's one from Coin Gecko,which is a popular site we can use tofind out the prices of cryptocurrency.So, we'll have this Coin Gecko MCPserver to cursor, for example. We'll goto our cursor settings and go to our MCPand integrations config and we'll add anew custom MCP server. And what it'sgoing to do is open up a MCP serverfile. And by the way, this is exactlyhow most of the applications we uselook. In fact, watch. Look at Claude.This right here is Claude's config. I'llopen that in cursor too. And now you'renot seeing double. These are twodifferent uh config files, but it's astandard, right? So they look thestinking same. But here for cursor, I'mgoing to change this config. Adding coingecko right here. Notice our Docker MCPserver is running a command with theDocker command and all these arguments.We'll cover that in a second. But thisone here is actually just reaching outto an external URL. This is an externalMCP server. We're not hosting it.Someone else is. And it's using thistransport SSE. We'll cover that here ina moment. I'm going to save it. We'llopen up a new chat here and say, what isthe current price of XRP? Use the CoinGecko MCP server. We'll let it run thetool. Let it get the sample price. Andthere it is. So, that's super handy. Butthis kind of drove me crazy. And ifyou're like me, you probably thought thesame thing. Like, how is thiscommunication working? What do MCPservers use for communication fortransport? Well, it depends on if you'rerunning local or remote. The mostinteresting one that I'm like, how isthis working was docker because we'resimply I mean this all this is doing.It's configured to run the Dockercommand plus MCP gateway run. Likeliterally, the command will be likethis. I can probably run it right now.Docker MCP gateway run. Like, yeah,that's what it's doing. And look, it'sactually running. and listing all thosetools and the server is now up. I'llstop that. So, what's really interestingis every time you try to use an MCPserver with Docker, it's actually goingto run the MCP gateway and then run thespecific MCP server. It's kind of crazy.We'll cover that here in a second. Iknow I keep saying that, but again,seriously though, if we're just runningcommands, how is this working? What'sthe communication? It's actually justusing standard out, standard input andoutput via the command line. That's it.This is direct communication betweenlocal processes on the same machine.JSON RPC messages are exchanged throughpipes. Meaning the transport is almostnothing. It's just like you sitting nextto me and I go, "Hi." Like that's it.There's no need to go over a network oranything, which is fantastic becausethere's like no latency, no networkoverhead. And you'll see that insituations like this where we're runningDocker MCP servers locally. Now, you canrun MCP servers without Docker. Dockeris just making it crazy easy for us. Butmost of the time when you're running onyour local machine, you're going to beusing standard input and output. Butwhat about when it's remote, not on thesame computer, not on the same network.Well, we're going to be using HTTP. Andin most cases, it should be HTTPS.And that's for client to server. It'sgoing to be using SSE or server sideevents, which is what we see right hereas our transport for server to client.And this is a lot more complex, right?Like you're setting up a web server atthis point. You're setting upauthentication. So operating a remoteMCP server is a whole thing. Whereasrunning your own MCP server in your ownDocker container on your local machine,you're just using standard input andoutput. All local, man. It's awesome.But now, real quick, I want to talkabout this MCP gateway thing becauseit's a little crazy. And by crazy, Imean awesome. Normally, you'd have toconfigure an MCP server like this, oneat a time, one service. So, we'd havemultiple entries here for whateverservice we want. But we saw that inDocker, we didn't add just one server toour config, did we? We added a bunch.Here's our list of servers right here.We have what, how many? six. Yet in ourMCP server list here in cursor, we haveone MCP server set up with Docker.That's the gateway. If I already usesome marketing speak right now, buckleyour seat belts. The Docker MCP gatewayprovides secure, centralized, andscalable orchestration of AI toolsthrough containerized MCP servers. Whatdoes that mean? It means when we haveClaude or Cursor, our clients, we justconnect them to one MCP server. We onlyneed to manage one connection. And thisone connection, this one MCP servergives us access to a lot of stuff, a lotof other MCP servers. So, I don't knowabout you, but it seems like this is alot cleaner than this. And of course,we'd also have to deal with all theauthentication, the secrets for eachconnection, for each client thatconnects. But not with Docker MCPgateway. It's all centralized rightthere. Killer. I hope you're starting tosee how cool this is. Or is it just me?I don't know. Comment below if it's justme or if you're joining me in thisexcitement. Hold on. I need some morecoffee. I'll be right back. You can getsome more coffee, too.Okay, that's steaming, man. Check thatout.Almost don't even need to drink it.Yeah, I do. Now, let's get to the CLIreal quick. My favorite place in theentire world. Let's go. You saw that wehave some new commands with Docker.Things like Docker MCP gateway. We justtried that