So, I met this dark web researcher atDefcon, you know, like you do. And thisguy, he's legit. He actually infiltratesthe dark web for a living. But he toldme about this problem he has, and we allhave this problem. It's hard for him tofind actual real stuff on the dark webuntil now. He built this AI tool thatwill search and scrape the dark web forhim. What? That sounds awesome. And thenhe goes, "Here you go, Chuck. Play withit. So, get your coffee ready. Let's goto the dark web." Most of the dark webis fake.>> Uh, yeah, that is true. And most of thetime there are law enforcement peoplecontrolling it or either massivelypresent on those forums.>> That's a problem. You may have not knownthat. And when you go there it lookskind of real, right? Spooky, scary. Whatis that? But it's all for show. Most ofit is law enforcement honeypotss. Butthere is real stuff. Why is it so hardto find? Two reasons. Whiteboard time.Problem number one. The dark web is runby onions and that makes it stinkingslow and Beatatric just broke one ofthem. What? Yes. Watch this. So, on theclear web, which is what you're usingright now, you have a direct connectionstraight to the website server. On thedark web, it's different. Every websiteyou connect to is going to be connectedthrough a series of onion relay servers.Now, this is great because it helps keepyou and the website you're visitinganonymous. What's not great isBeatatrice operates one of these onionrelay servers on a spare Raspberry Piand her mom's basement and her mom justunplugged the power. Now, we have arotten onion. This connection wasalready slow and then Beatatric justbroke it and you're disconnected. That'swhy surfing the dark web is so painful.But then, think about a dark webresearcher like a perf. He has toconduct a ton of different searches onthe dark web trying to scrape a ton ofwebsites, but it's slow and theseconnections break.>> The circuit does break. So, you have tolike recreate the circuit then restartyour script. So, all those things comeinto play when you are scraping darkweb.>> And problem number two is a crazy one.Criminals are kind of paranoid and thatmakes them harder to find. For example,a perv said that some websites are onlyoperational like 2 days a week and younever know which two days they are.>> The connection breaks anytime like younever know. Like for example there is aany website uh it is up let's say twodays a week so and you don't know whichtwo days sometimes you have to keeprestarting uh your entire like workflow>> making it almost impossible to find andsearch and scrape these sites so that'sa problem when you visit the dark webyou think what you're seeing is realit's not but to try and find the realstuff it's crazy difficult because thedark web by design is kind of clunkywhich is why a perve built a tool a toolthat takes a 6 to 8 hour research searchmarathon and gets that down to about a30 minute stroll in the park. This thingis kind of crazy. You got to see it. Butfirst, let's get our coffee ready for anad break. Now, real quick, before I showyou how to scrape the dark web with AI,that's a crazy sentence. I want to tellyou about something a perv and Idiscussed during our interview. Howthreat actors actually attack you.Here's what a perf told me. Cybercriminals on the dark web aren't justselling drugs or stolen credit cards.They're selling exploits. Tools thatabuse legitimate software alreadyrunning on your network right now.Microsoft Word, PowerShell, apps youtrust every single day. That's yourmistake. Bad on you. It's really hard tostop this with traditional anti virus.Why? Because these tools are allowed torun. Your security is saying, "Yeah,that's Microsoft Word. Of course, youcan open that." But what it doesn't seeis that Word just called PowerShell andexecuted a ransomware payload. Yeah,that [music] can happen. And that'swhere Threat Locker comes in. This videois sponsored by Threat Locker. I lovethem. Thank you. And after talking to aperve about the attacks, what they domakes a lot of sense. Threat Locker is azero trust endpoint protection platform.And here's what they do and I love this.Nothing runs without you explicitly[music] allowing it to run. And if youdo allow an app, like let's say you dowant to run Microsoft Word cuz you[music] have to. Threat Locker has athing called ring fencing to controlwhat an app is allowed to do. Let's sayWord is allowed [music] to run. But withring fencing, I can create a policy thatsays Word cannot call PowerShell.Period. So even if a threat actor doesexploit a vulnerability like Felina,which does weaponize Word to launchPowerShell, [music] threat locker justsays nope, blocks it. Now, it's notdetecting malware. It's not trying tocatch it. It's just simply saying thatbehavior is not allowed here. Stoppouring around. It stops it before iteven starts. [music] And here's a coolpart. Threat Locker has a learning mode.It watches what your network is alreadydoing and then builds policiesautomatically and then locks everythingdown, which saves a lot of time in thatinitial setup. You're not starting fromscratch. It learns from what you dofirst. Plus, if you do need helpmonitoring [music] threats, they have aCyber Hero MDR, a team that watches forsuspicious activity 24/7 and respondsfor you. Now, Threat Locker is offeringa free trial. no credit card. Now, ifyou're serious about security,especially after seeing what's on thedark web in this video, you need tocheck this out. Head tothreatlocker.com/network[music] to start your free trial orcheck that link in the descriptionbelow. And seriously, thank you toThreat Locker for sponsoring this video.They do make videos like this possible.I wouldn't be able to do this withoutthem. You know, all that cool editing.They these editors cost money. I have tofeed my editors. Thank you, ThreatLocker. All right, back to the dark web.I don't know about you, I got to get myhands on this. I need to experience thisfor myself. You're probably the sameway, right? Let's play with this toolourselves.Okay, here's the tool. It's calledRobin. It is based off that One Piececharacter. I never seen the show. ShouldI watch One Piece? I don't know. Let meknow below. It seems kind of long. Now,the secret sauce of Robin is that ituses AI to search the dark web toresearch it and make it easier for youand me. And a perf. It does this in afew cool ways. First, it'll help youquery. You type in something, it'll makeyour something a bit better. Like lookat what it did here. Then, it will scourthe dark web using multiple searchengines and look at all those results,over 900. It will then use AI toidentify the real sources, the realstuff, reducing that list from over 900to just 20 verifiable real [music]results. It will then scrape those 20sites and then use AI to tell you whatit found and even the next steps on howto continue your research. This tool isamazing. Now, to run Robin, you'll needtwo things. First, tour. This willactually be a package we'll install.Don't worry, I'll walk you through it.We'll also need Docker. If you don'tknow what Docker is, I'm excited foryou. Go watch this video. Mind blown.Now, we're going to run and install Tourand Docker on Linux-based machines orMac. So, Linux or Mac. Now, don't worry,Windows folks. I'm right here with you.You can run Linux on Windows with WSL,the Windows subsystem for Linux. I'm notgoing to walk through installation here,but I do have a video here about how todo that. All right, let's launch ourterminal. The best place in the world,Home Sweet Home. Here in WSL land, Iwill launch Ubuntu. First thing we'll dois make sure Docker is installed. We'lldo Docker- version. If you don't seethat, install Docker. I'll have a linkbelow. Next, we'll install tour with thepseudoapp install tour. Now, if you'reon Mac, it's going to be brew installtour. That does require you to have brewon Mac. Again, I'm not going to coverthat here, but I will have a link below.Now, you probably notice that this isvery command line first, meaning you'lluse this tool via the command line, butdon't worry if you love a guey. We'regoing to have a guey for you. You'll seethat here in a moment. Let's installtour,which is kind of exciting. Oh, wait.Wrong pseudo password. Embarrassing.There we go. Yes. Now, normally if youwanted to use a guey to explore tour,you would use a tour browser like theonion router browser. I think Brave hasa tour mode or you can use theNetworkshot cloud browser to safelybrowse tour. And now with tourinstalled, we're going to clone theRobin GitHub repo. I'll have a walkthrough below, but we'll just grab thatURL. Get back to our command line. We'lltype in get clone and then paste in thatURL just like this. Ready, set, go. It'scloning it. Cloned. Copy break. And thenwe'll CD into that folder. just made forus called Robin. And we're there. Now,if you're like, "Chuck, I have no ideawhat just happened." We use the toolcalled Git to essentially clone or copythe tool Robin to our computer so we canuse it. And then we jumped into thefolder that it created. Now, confession,normally when I make a video, I'veinstalled the tool before and I playedwith it. This one I have not. So, I'mactually discovering this with you inreal time. I'm pretty stoked. Now, we'reabout to build our Robin Dockercontainer. But before we do that, we'llneed to set up our API keys. Now,remember, this tool is going to be usingAI. But which AI? Well, it's up to you.With Robin, you can use chat GBT,Anthropic, or even local models likeLlama 3.1. Now, for me, I'm going to tryusing ChatgBT, which will mean I'll needto add an API key for Robin to use. Andnormally, you'll put your API keyssafely and securely inside av file.We're going to do that right now. Don'tworry, it's not too bad. I think uhperview even has an example file for us.Yes, there it is. Is aenv.example.If I cat that file or look inside of it,type in cat.env.example. example.There it is. That simple. Notice we havea slot for Anthropic, OpenAI, Google,and even just put in your OMA base URL.I'm going to put in Olama and OpenAI.So, what I'll do is I'll copy theexample file env.ampleinto a new file named env. Just likethat. Now, it's nano.env. And now we canadd our keys into this new file. I'mgoing to add openai. And then I'll putin my OAMA base URL, which I alwaysforget what that port is. Let me checkit real quick.There it is.All right. Control X Y enter to save.Now we're going to set up the RobinDocker container. Now, currently it'snot on any repo. Now, you're not goingto find it on Docker Hub. So, we'regoing to build that Docker containerright now. The command will be pseudoDocker build- t, which is us naming thiscontainer Robin. And then we'll do aspace t to tell it, hey, look here forthe Docker files. Ready, set, build.Woo! This gets me every time. I love it.Oh, keep going.There's nothing like sipping coffee andjust watching things happen in yourterminal. It's my happy place. Somepeople like the beach. This is it forme. Dang, of you got a lot of stuff inthis thing. Yeah, there's beautifulsoup. That's a tool you'll normally useto do web scraping. How big is thisthing? Oh, it finished. I was scrolledup like a dummy. Now, with one command,we're going to run this sucker. Approvealready has a Docker run command for us.Just going to copy that. get back to myterminal and paste it in here. Allright, running our Docker container now.Okay, notice first it's connecting tothe tour network. It's connecting to thedark web. Handshaking connecting. It'sbeing so social now. It seems like itstarted my web app beforeit fully connected. Let's go see if ourweb app works. We'll go out to localhost port 8501.Okay, cool. It seems to be working. Onthe left here, we have our LLM choices.And then in the middle, we can justsearch for stuff. But I don't thinkwe're connected just yet. I guess we cantry it. Let's try searching forransomware.That's a good sign. That means it'sconnected to chat GBT. It refined myquery, but I don't think it's actuallysearching.Yeah, nothing's really happening. I'mgoing to go up here and click on stop atthe top. Oh, look at that. Lots of[laughter] weird things happening. Let'sstop that.I think I need to wait. We'll give ittime to bake.[groaning]Okay, I made some progress. I just hadto wait for a moment. Tour is janky.Let's test it out now. Let's tryransomware.Okay, refining query.Okay. Are things happening? [music] Idon't know.Oh, did you see that? It found 910results. Even more than a perve filterdown to 20. Now it's scraping thosesites. This is so exciting.Oh, it's done. Or [music] it'sgenerating a summary. Dude, these areactual links. Let's try one.Dude, even my browser is having problemswith tour. Come on. Get me to the goodstuff. Let's go. Dude, this is takingforever. Let's Let's keep looking at ourinvestigation here. I found thebuilders. Cryptor, RCM, Conti, DarknetArmy forum. [music] RCM claims easy $500per hit. And we got some info here. Andthen next steps, monitor that forum,profile some threat actors, and evensome other search queries we can try.We're going to do that. Let's check onour tour browser now. Oh, we're almostthere. I'm going to grab that link onemore time to test it out. We're in.Let's go. Okay, bad link. A perve didsay that sometimes it does give some badlinks, but I think we got one.Oh,that worked. Okay, let's keepinvestigating. Let's do Conti. We'll doanother search.634 results. Filtering down the 20. It'sscraping the content now. Okay, let'ssee what it found. Wa! Oh, look[laughter] at this, dude. They've gotcryptocurrency addresses. Doge, LTC,BTC, XMR. That's nuts. Threat actorinfo. Dude, this thing is crazy. Now, wecan also click on download right hereand download a markdown file of oursummary. So, we can throw that suckerright into our obsidian vaults forresearch. Now, hold on. Before you getcrazy, we need to talk about safety.Now, I just gave you an extremelypowerful and dangerous tool. I knowyou're wanting to search right now.You're wanting to go nuts. Tell youwhat, while your thing is sitting therewaiting to connect to the tour networklike mine did, let's let's talk aboutsafety and what you got to do to protectyourself when you're doing this.Remember what a perf said>> the entire thing of being safe whiledoing this it's really important I wouldsay>> so here are the rules use VPN plus tour>> so like for example scraping youdefinitely want to do VPN and then tourso that your ISP can't see oh you areaccessing tour but in many countriestour is considered like okay they mustbe doing something illegal uh so that'swhy you want to go through VPN so theycan't see where you are going to>> do not try to access illegalmarketplaces or sites selling bad stuff,stuff you know you don't need.>> There are like drug related stuff, CSMrelated stuff, power words like hacking,killing stuff, all those things, right?>> Yeah, that stuff really exists on thedark web and you really don't need it.That's why a perv wrote this tool in away that will put guard rails in forhimself and for you.>> So if someone searches for thatdefinitely like even if you go on thewebsite, you search for that, you willget the result. Uh as I showed in theprompt like I do have written that okaydo not show me not safe for work.>> Just be careful it's not foolproof. I'venot tested it like I don't want to getmy hands uh with that. So that is adisclaimer which I put it on the GitHubalso.>> Please take a per warning seriously.>> Please don't search for those things.You will get into trouble. That is a bigthing. Like especially in US if yousearch any CS related stuff and you havesomething saved on your system, you arein big trouble. Like that is a fullillegal area that you are going into.Even if you do it mistakenly like theywill not listen to you like you are introuble. you will get arrested. So, it'salways better to not search for any ofthose things>> right to jail right away.>> Don't download suspicious stuff. Likereally, just don't download anythingfrom the dark web. Rule of thumb. No.Ow, that actually hurt. I hit myselfwith my ring. Now, by the way, thisentire thing I've been showing you,researching the dark web, it's part of areal job, a threat researcher. That'swhat a per does. But the reality, it'snot that easy to find things in the darkweb. Like, this tool does make iteasier, but it's still pretty stinkinghard. But also, it's a real job andthat's kind of cool. A perf told me alittle bit about what that entailsthough. Like if you want to actuallyfind real things in the dark web, it'snot as easy as a really fancy searchingtool that does some cool stuff. It'salso a waiting game. For example, whenwe do get those good results from thetool Robin, that's just the beginning.Fingers crossed you'll eventually find aforum and you'll get in there and you'lljust wait. You got to be patient. A perftold me it takes a long time, days,weeks. You have to stay there, buildtrust. And not just that, like you haveto kind of go undercover like anundercover cop.>> Basically, you create uh accounts thatare not tied to you or your company orwhatever organization you work for likesock puppet accounts on forums,Telegram, even for Telegram like youhave have a burner phone number.>> Okay. Sock puppet accounts with burnerphones. But don't make this beginnermistake.>> A lot of uh beginners I would say uhwhen they try to create these accounts,they put recovery email as their mainemail. cannot even think about okay Ican say something related to me>> and listen if you're actively talking tothreat actors you got to be on your gameif you adopt a persona remember it>> don't break character>> make it real consistently use it>> if you are actually talking to them uhthat is a different ball game like youyou have to be very wary of uh what yousay to the threat actors>> new name new me new everything the wayyou talk the accent you have and youwant to make sure you remember thosethose details you create because as youget into those forums, these dark webcriminals, they're not dumb. They'reanticipating cops getting in there orresearchers coming in and they'relooking for