the way I used to use Manim, and the way I actually suspect a lot of people who use Manim Community do use it, is you're always running it from the command line. So you've got your scene and then you run Manim, that scene, and then it pops up. It renders an MP4 file, so it has to render the file and then pop it up. And there were a bunch of shortcuts to say, oh, don't render the whole file, just render it starting at this animation or something. But you can imagine the iteration cycle is a little more annoying if every single time you're making an update and you want to see it. So it was later in the game, around the same time I was changing the implementation to run on OpenGL, to then also have the interactive shell version, such that the process of creating just is like, highlight the code and see what the code does. And that's a fundamental change to the workflow. It's huge! And my specific workflow, it depends on these Sublime scripts that I wrote that will send a command to the Terminus, which is the extension of Sublime that makes a terminal. So what I'll do is in the description of this video, I'll actually document what that process is. And so if anyone's curious and wants to replicate it, probably whatever text editor they're using you can do something that does the same. So for all the people who are in Visual Studio and whatnot, you can do something that would look the same. So here it rendered it, and now it's going to look all glitchy because of those glitches that I mentioned. But this is now playing in a video player, it's a file. This I would drop into Final Cut, do my editing. I guess another thing we never did is we could have the equations. Let's add the equations. So you can have a LaTeX object that's basically going to say hey, take some LaTeX and then render it, and then we'll add it on. Have you ever used MathPix? MathPix is so good. So it's OCR, but for LaTeX you can take a snapshot of just any equations and then it gives you all sorts of things, but one of them would be the LaTeX for that expression. Fantastic. And so it also gives you it as an SVG if you want and all that. It's really good. So from a screen, literally a bitmap is taken to a scalable vector. It's really panicky. It's great. It's so good. I guess it renders it in LaTeX and then SVGs it out. So we can use this here, so we can have our equations and then add those. So that will dump them in the middle of the screen, am I right? You're absolutely right. And also on the XY play. If there's a 3D scene and you want stuff like that, you say fix in frame, as if it's glued on the camera frame. And then in this case we might want it in a corner. So here's something I wrote which, let's see if this works actually. So you can index into it by a string. So I can say every time you find an X you know, maybe color that red. That's useful. But not working. Tech to color. And by better I mean more it'll actually work. So T to C I guess is what we call it. So T to C Let me get my line spacing in a way that looks a little bit nicer. So here's a nice thing you can do. If we say everything that looks like an X make that red. Everything that's Y, red, green, blue. I think that will... And actually now that it's known to separate those out at some point, if I do say equations and I try to pull out the Xs and I shift them a little bit up then it has control on them. It does its best if you don't do anything to say hey these are specific variables I'm going to want to separate but you have to from the tech expression know how many symbols there will be such that it can dissect the manum object in that. It's a little tricky to get it to actually work. So if you know you want control over variables you just put them in an expression like this. There's another one called isolate or something. 9 times out of 10 it will work by default anyway for simpler expressions. Maybe you do something where it's like you've got we're going to write the equations onto the screen to just beam in a bit. And now that's going to be the scene that renders if we go and then it does its whole thing. And so those are just up there as it's doing its thing. And are they behind or in front of the camera? That's the sort of thing I'm sure you can control right? So in this case by default things will just be rendered in the order that you put them on unless you tell them to apply a depth test. So a lot of 3D objects that know they're supposed to be in three dimensions it's going to be depth tested. In this case its actual position in space is on that xy plane so it's a little bit weird. But if we wanted them to be rendered, wanted to make sure they show up in front what we could do is just make sure that we add it down here. And then what I could do we could maybe say hey let's take those equations and I want to set a backstroke so that there's a little bit of space around them. Let's maybe make the font size a little smaller so that they're just up in the corner so the font size is like 30 something like that. We put that on they're a little bit smaller up there and then now when we render our I guess they're not really going to overlap with the solutions because I made them smaller. Because they're being updated every frame. Being able to break the text into sort of mathematical parts is extraordinarily useful if you want to highlight mathematical parts. And it's something that would be a real pain to do in any other context. Yeah you know what I maybe should say. I have some example scenes basically. So this is my intention. Hey if you wanted to get started just look at a couple of these examples. And so if you wanted to see like working with some tech what that might look like. In this case I've got actually a series of expressions that we're going to play with which is basically rearranging a certain equation. And these are going to be the lines of our equation and now it's just rendering the first of those lines. I've got a special notion of transform that will try to match the strings underlying it. So that if we play like this the A squared goes to the A squared the B squared goes to the B squared and things like that. There's example scenes in here to kind of show the kinds of operations available. If you just play around with some strings this like matching string will automatically give you a nice anagram animator. Where you don't really you don't even have to think. You don't have to worry about it. You don't have to think. It's just like move the letter to the corresponding letter and like it's sort of a one liner that does that. That was like an emergent thing. I mean slightly not helpful for viewers but we saw a big anagram discussed a couple of days ago. We should tell Simon. Yeah that's what it would save Simon if he had run it through Manim. I can just like show a little bit more in here if you want where got this equation, famous equation. If you wanted to say hey I just want to reference the E part of that. There's an animation called flash around and you'd be flashing around just at E. Or you want it. There's another one called indicate and you want to indicate that pie. Things like that. So you're pulling it out bit by bit. And in terms of understanding what functions like that exist. Obviously there's your head which is this vast trove of experience over the time you wrote it. But the Manim community version is a different version but these still exist. Yeah Manim community definitely has much better documentation. There's not zero documentation on this one. You can see all the animations basically in a folder of the library called animation. If you just look through that folder you'll see the things that exist. All of the code I've ever written for any video is on GitHub. If you go to github. slash 3b1b slash videos this GitHub basically has all the animation from videos in the past. In this case I guess and videos of the present. I haven't made any animation for holograms yet so that one. We can see some puzzles that I just made for the IMO. You can see it all in there and then that gives you some sense of what the functionality available is. And maybe this is a workflow thing for people like me who are beginning. If you don't know what functions are out there obviously you can look at the library and see what's in there. There's no auto complete sort of like if you start typing one that you think might be it you can't Oh yeah sure there is. There's all sorts of auto complete tools out there. Which will be more to do with the text editor. Yeah so this is the text editor question. So like in Sublime there's a thing called a language server protocol and so there's some I think it's called like Pi LSP or something. It has some sense of the environment that it's in and might auto complete. So that's one way to find a function. If I was going to write a function I might call it this. You can find out if there is one call. GitHub copilot right? Just like use copilot. I don't like using copilot with Manim just because I know what I want to do and it doesn't quite know what I want to do. And it's really nice if you're like engaging with a new library of code but I don't know I just find like dumber auto complete tools to be the thing I actually want. Because often it's like it's not a if I don't know exactly what I want the way I want to even articulate the request is in code not in English. To each their own but like just try it. Yeah and you have the experience to sort of fall back on your own experience. Yeah yeah yeah yeah just fill it in. No but that is a sort of workflow thing and depending on your text editor and it's actually something I'm just not used to. Like it's that that lower level sometimes it's the barrier to getting started on these things. Yeah yeah yeah. But once you've crossed those hurdles. Yeah how do you even know where to start. So the example scenes I think would maybe yeah yeah gives you some sense of it. Nice well thank you for showing me I really enjoyed seeing the back end. It's a very human experience coding and what and the messiness is part of it. So there you go little peek behind the scenes. I will leave a link in the description to that repo where you can see the code for literally any video I've made in the past. By the time I post this I'll also add something to the readme of that repo to outline the actual workflow that I'm using here. You know the specific sublime scripts what you would want to mimic if you're using a different text editor things like that. And I'll also post the full version of that conversation warts and all to Patreon. I might actually do some like manum live streams or something like that on Patreon periodically. If that's a thing you would be into let me know. If so what kinds of things would you like to see. But in the meantime I'll be busy animating the next video and I will see you then.