From a highle perspective, there areessentially only two ways to make moneyfrom bug bounty. One of them isautomation hacking and the other ismanual hacking. I and many other bugbounty hunters choose to focus primarilyon manual hacking for a number ofreasons. One of them is that it requiresless initial investment to actually getstarted. So you need to invest less ofyour own money in order to actuallystart making money from bug bounty. Thesecond reason is it often leads tohigher severity vulnerabilities. So morein the high to critical category. Well,not always, but a lot of automationhacking tends to look for more mediumtype vulnerabilities which don't reallyhave a lot of attack chains or anythinglike this. And the final reason is thathonestly I just find it funner. I justfind it more interesting to manuallylook at an application instead of buildsome like bot that's going to do it forme. Those are the main reasons that Ifocus on manual hacking. And in thisvideo, I've collected three other videoson my channel that talk about manualhacking and are hopefully going to helpyou get started in it. Now, before youclick off thinking that this is just arepost of videos that I made before,I've added some additional commentary tothe videos of things that I've justlearned about manual hacking, some newtools that I found or some newtechniques that I've discovered. Buteven if you've actually watched thesevideos before, I think it's worth goingover them and watching them again. Thisis a pretty funny AI generated picturegenerated by me by Chad GPD. Thank youvery much. And you can see here have abit of ground. And if you imagine, justuse your imagination that the groundhere is the target that you're hackingon. It's like all the attack surface.It's like all the possible things youcan find, all the features, like everybutton, like every source code, like allthe domains, just all that is thisground, right? And we start from thesurface. We don't we don't knowanything. We don't have any recon. Wedon't have any reconnaissance. Someone'sunderground. Right. This this diamondhere is going to be our vulnerability.It's hidden somewhere in like a featureor something like that. There's likesome kind of parameter that's going toallow us to exploit some kind ofvulnerability. That's great. There'sdiamond here and we're trying to findthat diamond. Basically, if I washunting for this diamond, there's twoways you can do it, right? If you thinkabout it, you could either startexcavating this like top surface on theground here and hope that the diamond issomewhere like near the surface. It'slike surface level, right? So youexcavate like a wide area of ground andand you check if the diamond's there,right? And the second way to do it is tojust like start drilling deep. Like youthink that diamonds are like bedrocklevel or something and you basically getlike a drill and start going all the waydown like and then hopefully you findthe diamond somewhere deep undergroundwhere other people aren't looking.So that's basic oops that's basicallythe two ways that we can approach anytarget. We can attack a wide surfacearea. So we can attack a load ofsubdomains like a load of end points. Wecan have a load of scanners set up. Youcan have automated stuff like this andhope that the vulnerability is surfacelevel. It's a vulnerability that doesn'trequire a lot of human thinking. It justrequires like machines to go in and likefind stuff like that using subdomains.The other approach is the deeperapproach. You hope that one area ofground that that one particular area ifyou go deep enough into it, you'll findsome kind of vulnerability. So you'repraying that this that the diamond justhappens to be on the column that you'redigging at. And hopefully if you go deepenough you'll find and hopefully it'snot a massive waste of time. Right?That's kind of the two approaches thatyou can take. The best approach is kindof a combination of both. You don't wantto just spend your time going into likeone feature of of a program. But youalso don't want to just go completelysurface level because the diamonds atthe surface are always going to be kindof smaller as well. You know like deeperyou go in the bigger the diamonds aregoing to be. So if you kind of imaginethat analogy hunting a program, you[snorts] want to dig deep enough thatyou kind of have these bigger diamondshere. But if you spend too much time onone feature, then you might be limitingyourself. You might be going too far.Maybe it's time to check another areaand go a bit wider. Right? That's kindof the mentality I want you to have.So when you're going wide, there's acouple of things that you can do, right?So the main thing is finding subdomain.So enumerating subdomains and basicallytrying to find more attack area. Anotherthing is scanning, automated scanning.That's trying to like deep a little bitsurface level trying to get like someeasy like XSS vulnerability orsomething. So unless you're running likea custom template, you're probably goingto dup to be honest. But unless you alsofind a lot of sub doains, you can find alot of sub domains then you can maybefind some some dup. So something likenuclei here like a nuclear template onyour tag and trying to find something.And then just general forcing a kind ofgeneral for not like it's not specific,right? So if you're like specificallyfuzzing for like a parameter that'sdifferent. But if you're fuzzing like asubdomain that you know nothing aboutand you're just trying to find some likeexposed like environment file thenthat's what I would call wide. So you'rejust trying to find like a specific kindof endpoint on a domain on a subdomainand you're just seeing if it's there soyou get that quick vulnerability. Right.So that's kind of wide.And then deep is when you're actuallygoing into the features you're actuallyunderstanding the application. Right? Soyou're trying to enumerate the features.You're trying to find parameters. Sothere's actually elements to fuzzingwhen you're going deep as well. It's notjust like just there like you're justthinking about something. You also kindof want to do discovery, right? So youwant to find parameters. You want to tryand test out like new feature maybe likefuzz headers as well. Those kind ofthings will help you get a generalunderstanding of the application andsource code analysis which is anotherthing. Mostly I'm talking aboutJavaScript here. So JavaScript analysis.But if this is an whitebox test, thenmaybe actually reading the source codeis going to actually be possible. Or ifthis is an open- source tool, then youcan actually read the source code aswell and get an understanding of that.So I'm going to mostly be going into thedeep side today because I think the wideside is already fairly well covered by alot of tutorials, but I think this deepside actually is a little bit stillunexplored for a lot of people becauseit requires a bit of thinking, requiresa bit of target specific knowledge.Well, I feel like the deep side actuallyis made a lot easier by AI. And I'mgoing to show you how I use AI tobasically dig deep into a target andwithout having to use a lot of my ownbrain. But now I'm going to hop into alive example. I'm going to show you howI would do recon on hacker one with someof these deep tactics. So this is hackerone. Probably not a new site to most ofyou. So you're probably used to thisprogram. First recon I would definitelydo is just to actually get used to usingthe the platform. So, I would spend oneor two days just using this applicationand figuring out how to actually usethem. If you followed my guide where youchoose a target that you already usedbefore, then you can skip that step. Butif this is a completely new thing, thenyou should spend some time getting usedto how the application works and what iteven is. And that's the first bit ofrecut I would do. The second thing[clears throat]which I think a lot of book bountyhunters don't actually do is to deploysome kind of reax. So reax regularexpressions is something that basicallywill matchsome kind of terms in a bit of text andcontext of a website we're going tomostly be looking at JavaScript andobviously HTML as well but mostlyJavaScript right. So, there's this toolcreated by another hacker calledLinkfinder that's kind of nice to useand you can create some offshoot reaxesfrom that that I'll show you in aminute. First of all, I'm going to showyou the actual code for this. So, thecode is here. I've edited it slightlyjust to suit my needs, but you canprobably get the unedited versionsometimes. And the goal here is thatthis what this will do is this will justfind links on the website and then it'llreturn it to us. So I'll just show it toyou what it looks like for now. So Iopen up the bookmark and I'll runlinkfinder and this will just grab graball like the endpoints on the website.And why we want to do this? Well, thisis useful to find APIs, find unused APIcalls, just generally get anunderstanding of the features and thenfind other links like internal linkspotentially on JavaScript as well, whichis all very useful.thing is a lot of people are runningthis tool already though and definitelyon something like hacker one a verypopular program you can see thatprobably most people have alreadydiscovered a lot of these endpoints whatwe want to do is try and design ourcustom tools tools that other peoplearen't going to be running at the momentthat's the ideal goal of rejax right sosee I have my own custom tools designedhere and I'm going to show you exactlyhow you can do the same thing rightso with this JavaScript here what weneed to do is just edit the reax so justSo it will return the data in the sameformat but will give us a different typeof result and this is right here. Wewant to edit this right here. Right? Sothis is all the redex that we want toedit. And I'm just going to I'll linkthis in the description for you.Actually there'll be link in thedescription hopefully if I don't forget.But we want to place our template inhere basically. And how do we designtemplates? Well best way to do it wouldbe to know reax and then go in and makeit yourself. I don't do that thoughbecause Red X is kind of complicatedespecially on minified JavaScript. So wecan consult our best friend here.Consult our best friend Chajb to try anddesign us a reax here. So how would I goabout doing this? The ideal way is totry and design it yourself first andthen get Chad to improve it. But I'm noteven going to be bothered with thateither. I'm just going to go type inhere. I'm going to say uh design reaxfor me.that will, let's just say I want to tryand find all the strings on this webpage. It's kind of random, right? Thatwill find all the strings from minifiedJavaScript. I don't know why you wouldwant to do this, but just to give you anexample, you can find anything. Youcould maybe find like path traversals orsomething like that and all the thatwill extract extract all the stringsfrom minifi JavaScript. Now, animportant thing to do is to tell Chargto think because if you use just thedefault fast version, it'll probablygive you [ __ ] reax. We want it to thinkand actually give us some code reax. So,we go in here and let's just see what itgives us. We'll say design some reax forme. It'll hopefully think for a moment.And while I do that, I'll just bringback the code. And we're just going toinject it in here right when gives it tous. And then we're going to create a newbookmark,right? Seems like we've gotten some reaxhere.Let's see if it works. Sometimes tragicPT will make a mistake in terms of reax.So you might have to tweak it a littlebit and tweak tweak it, but we're goingto just test it out first. We're goingto paste the reax into the It's alreadygiven us the brackets here. So we'regoing to copy paste this. Now with thenew reax, we're going to go here andwe're going to sayadd a bookmark. We're going to say likestring finder. That's usually what Icall this. And then we're just going tocopy paste this into it. We've saved itthere. Now let's run string fightinder.Let's see what string finder returns tous. So give it a few seconds there.And there you go. It seems like it'sactually returned all the strings to us.Wow. You see? And now we have Oh,[laughter] okay. Some of that is verylong. Sometimes, especially with minifiJavaScript, the kind of results you getmight be a bit dodgy. You might get somegarbage, but on the off, but most of theresults seemto be accurate here. We managed to getall the actual strings here. So now wecan uh basically look for stuff here ifyou wanted to. Like you see, we havedevice width. We could basically copythem. And now what you want to do whenyou have this result actually is youwant to go into the source code into thedebugger want to search and actuallylocate that. One of the really cooltools that I've actually discoveredrecently especially useful forJavaScript analysis is called JX Scout.And what this will basically do is itwill download JavaScript files that arebeing loaded by your browser onto aVisual Studio folder and then you canaccess it from Visual Studio using anextension. And if you're running Reaxthe way I recommend in this video andthen looking at it through the Chrome orFirefox dev tools, it's not really goingto be that great. And the reason isbecause the dev tools are absolute arepretty terrible at actually looking andanalyzing JavaScript. What is ideal isusing something like Visual Studio whichis going to format the code for us. It'sgoing to actually beautify it and thenit's going to load source map sourcemaps for us as well. And JX Scout isactually going to help us to do that. Sowhat I would actually recommend isinstead of running the reax and tryingto find it inside of, you know, thewhat's it called the dev tools, I wouldactually run it and then try and findthe feature inside Visual Studio insteadfrom a JavaScript file that I've loadedin before. And I would even go as far asto say that you can even run the reax inVisual Studio itself. Visual Studio letsyou run reax as well on a number ofdifferent files. And the reason I thinkthis is great is because when you run aJavaScript bookmark, you run it only onone aspect of the website, right, on onepage. But if you run it on Visual Studiowith all the JavaScript filesdownloaded, let's say you were justnavigating to the website and you justdownloaded all the JavaScript files inthe background, then you can run it onall the web all the pagessimultaneously, right? So you can getall the results for it. And this isimportant because a lot of websites useWebpack. They use chunks to break downthe website into a number of differentcomponents. So instead of sending oneuser the entire website from JavaScript,a lot of companies say that this is notsafe anymore and they use Webpack tosplit the website into chunks.So what I will do is I would use VisualStudio Code to actually use Reax tosearch the entire website and then tryand find it in the code and look at notthe minified JavaScript but actualprettier looking JavaScript, right?Maybe they show like an example of it.Yeah. So this is what it looks like,right? So in instead of having that likegarbage minified stuff, you get it likenicely loaded in. You get it, you know,formatted and sorted for you, right?This is usually what it's going to looklike. The variable names are still goingto be not useful at all. However, it isgoing to at least be formatted for youand it's going to be like highlightedand stuff like that. And then you'regoing to get this thing on your rightwhich is also going to show you somestuff that you might be interested in tolook for client side vulnerabilities. Sothis is what a tool that I wouldrecommend to use instead of using theregulardev tools to actually look at theJavaScript code. I do still see value inusing the JavaScript bookmarklets justbecause when you run the reax on VisualStudio Code, you're going to get a lotof results back and sometimes it can bea little bit overwhelming and sometimesI just prefer to look at one one pageinstead of like hundreds of differentresults. I prefer to just see a fewdifferent endpoints that are going to berelevant to the feature that I'mactually looking at at the moment.That's also something to consider. Iwould keep using the bookmark list, butI would switch to using Visual StudioCode for your actual JavaScript codeanalysis.Actually, locate that somewhere on theweb page, right? Hopefully, it'ssomewhere here. [snorts]Maybe like with device or something.Okay, I don't know why that's notfinding.Okay, I'm not sure why that's notfinding, but what would you do? What youwould do is just go in there. Maybelet's try something that's like UTF8,let's say.table search. Okay, there you go. Forexample, UTFA. You go here, you findwhere the source is, then you startreading the JavaScript. Fortunately,this is minified. Most programs will useminified JavaScript because it justtakes up less memory.But you can still read it. You candefinitely get used to reading minifiedJavaScript. It's just a bit of skillthat you have to build up. But then youcan try and search for vulnerabilitieslike that. That's one of the major bitsof recon you can do. And you can seehere that let's go back to thisopportunities page here. You can see mybookmarks. I have a GraphQL queryfinder. This will basically return allthe GraphQL queries from here. I have adon't even know what this does. I thinkthis returnsall this returns any stringconcatenations. So in JavaScript, youcan basically do like a thing where youhave a template literal and maybe I'llrun this. Yeah, sorry. This templateliteral fin. Yeah, that's what it is.This finds all the template literalstrings. So basically where variableshave been injected into strings. Thisjust helps me find client side pathtraversal vulnerabilities. So maybe youcould go in and try and test all thisfor path traversal vulnerabilities. Andthen the last thing is client side pathtraversal finder. It does somethingsimilar as the one on top, but thisbasically finds wherever strings areadded together with a plus.So this will tell me where two stringsare added just directly with an actuallike string concatenation. So withoutusing template literal but just