this, again, if youwatch my videos, this is going to belike the 10,000th time you heard this.Reverse prompting. Reverse prompting iswhen instead of you telling what the AIto do, you ask it what you can do basedon what you know about me, my goals, myworkflows, what would be some good subagents we can spin up and assign. Youropen cloud knows way more about you thanI do. So, it will know based on all yourconversations which sub agents youshould set up. It'll give you a list.Choose just one, have it set up, andstart using it. This is going to be thebest way to set up your own AIorganization. Feel free to copy me. Idon't recommend it because me and youare probably different people withdifferent workflows, but you can copy meto start, but always make sure youreverse prompt so you can set up yourown custom organization. Let's also talkabout future state real quick here. WhatI think the future of all of this is,and I think the future of all of this islocal AI. Right now, if you have subagents going 24/7, 365, it could getpricey. It could use up a lot of yourlimits. That's why I think local AI isso important. This is my setup here. Ihave three Mac Studios, a DJX Spark, anda Mac Mini. You don't need to do this.You don't need to run out. This is like$40,000 computers. You don't need to dothat. You can start small with onecomputer, one DJX Spark, right? Load amodel onto it and have that modelhandling one of your sub agentsactivities. Maybe you load up Quen onthere and then Quen 3.5 handles all yourresearch. Now you've offloaded onespecific task to a local model that willcost you 0.0 in tokens. Yes, you'respending some money upfront for thecomputer, but now in perpetuity till theend of time, it can do work for you 24/7without costing you anything. This iswhat I believe is the future. Havingswarms of local agents constantly allday and night doing work for you becauseit's going to cost you a little bit ofmoney up front, but no money after that.If you were to swarm a hundred subagents doing work 24/7, you're probablypaying thousands and thousands andthousands of dollars a year. If you buycomputers, it's just one upfront costand then it cost you nothing after that.This is what I think the future stateis. I'd recommend thinking about thisand think about how you can slowly layerthis into your workflow. But this iswhat I believe the future state is. Hey,I'm open to disagreement if you want tolet me know that I'm stupid. I don'tcare. But this is what I think is thefuture and this is what I'm investingin. I really hope this was helpful. Inthe next video, I'm going to talk aboutbuilding your own AI research lab, howyou can have your sub agents actuallytraining models for you. It's a littleadvanced. If you think that's too much,let me know down below. If you want tosee that, let me know down below. It's alittle bit outside of what I normallydo, so I want to get feedback before Ifilm it. So, let me know down below. Ifyou have any other questions for me, I'malways in the Vibe Coding Academy. Youcan post questions in there. There'salso a thousand people to answer yourquestions, too. It's a whole communityof OpenClaw and Claude Code people. linkfor that down below. Make sure to join.Hope this was helpful.