post directly on thereand it'll be better formatted and nicerwritten in the way that you want itusing that. Right? David says, "Hasanyone here got experience with usingthe AR profit boardroom?" So, I actuallygot uh 115 pages of testimonials righthere if you want to check them out.These are all screenshots of people whoare saying thank you or sharing theirwins with the Arprofit Boardroom link inthe comments description or just go toArprofit Boardroom if you want to signup, right? Profitboard.com. The othercool thing about this is you can connectwith me. Plus, we have a full trainingmodule on Clawbot, how to set it up, howI've got it working so well, some of thebest things I've set up. You can seehere, we literally in a couple ofminutes have set this up to createlanding pages and deploy them to Netify.What I'm going to do over here is we'regoing to go back over here and I'm goingtake a little screenshot and then we'llcopy that. Go back to Clubbot and say,"You can only see the code, not thepage. Please fix." But yeah, it's prettyinsane what you can do. So, if you wantto learn all this stuff, you want tolearn how to implement this for you,check out the AI profit border for sure.And it's fixing the deployment righthere. So, if we go back to Clawbot now,we should have that ready to go. Let'stry out. Boom. Look at that. We lit Thisis insane, isn't it? It's just silly atthis point. We've got the page ready togo deployed on a subdomain. This is viaNetlefi. You can see it's created thisbeautiful page as you can see, and it'sfunneling traffic to the AR forBoardroom. I do need to fix a page.We'll do that in a second. All right.And if you do have changes for it, itcan recode it and then improve it.Right. So if I go back to the clawbotnow and I say, "Okay, can you make surethe link goes to this page also? I wantto embed this video from Vimeo." So I'mgoing to grab that. Grab the embed code.There we go. Embed this video. And thenalso add more copy to convince people tosign up. Also, we have 2,200 people inthere. Plus, we update it daily withlive stream coaching with me, too. Allright, so you can see how we can likejust quickly update pages that we createand projects that we create as well. Andyeah, it's pretty simple and easy. KKsays, "I'm a beginner and need to learnmoldbot." Yes. So, check out the airprofit boardroom if you learn that.Actually, when you sign up, we'll askyou what you want to learn and thenwe'll give you some options so we canguide you on the right journey and youcan just follow what we teach you. Sofar, what was the hardest task Clawbotdid? So, it could edit videos usingRemotion, right? That was prettyimpressive. It can create avatar videosautomatically inside the chat. That waspretty amazing. It can create articlesthat actually rank on Google. So, if wego on to Google here and we type in bestSEO speakers 2026, right? And then wescroll down, you'll see this articlethat we created with Clawbot just 12hours ago is already ranking on thefirst page of Google, right? So within12 hours, we rank this article on Googleusing Clawbot and it can publishdirectly to WordPress as well. So prettyinsane. Now you can see Clawbot isresponding and it will start creatingthat page. It's 6:30 a.m. and I'm hereto learn. That's what we're talkingabout. What a big mess. Now Clawbot isfalling a lot because the name rebrand.That's one of the reasons I created thislive stream today was just so thatpeople are aware of what the change isand what's happened. Way co says, "Areyou on the max plan?" Yes, wouldrecommend. But also you can set up OLama if you haven't seen that alreadyinside the air profit boarding. If yougo to the classroom here then you go toSAP updates right you'll find at thebottom we have a full section on how toset up Olama. So if you want to stealthat from me see all the setup then youcan get that inside the profit boardroomwith clawbot. We also show you forexample how to basically build andautomate anything using clawbot and alsohow to set up the AI browser agent too.So if you want to learn all this stuff,we've got loads of trainings inside theAI profitable boarding. And also we havea full section here on my case study ofhow I ranked number one in 12 hoursusing Clawbot AI SEO. So if you want tolearn this stuff, check it out insidethe AI profit world. Just go to theclassroom and then SAP updates like youcan see. So now we have redeployed thenew landing page and you can see we'veactually added the VSSL at the top. It'sincluded this section blah blah blah. toinclude like the number of calls perweek, what it does, etc. And then Ithink we could actually use Netifi toreplace the old version of the AI profitvolume with the new one. Just to comparethese side by side, this is prettyinsane, too. Some of you watching willbe using tools like Manis, which Metajust acquired. This was created withManis. You can see and it's not a badwebsite, but it's not great. It's notgreat. Right now, let's have a look atthis one. So, this is the new websitethat Clawbot created. And you see how itjust looks more beautiful. It looks moremodern. It looks more interesting. It'sgot more urgency at the top. That isdesigned much better to convert, right?And we just did it inside Telegram withone or two prompts. It's pretty insane.Now, if I go back to Telegram here, Ishould be able to deploy this directlyto the old main domain, right? Okay. Soif I go inside here and I say okay nowdeploy this to aip profitboardroom.comand replace the old content on that pagevia net. All right. What it should beable to do is basically deploy thiscontent on arprofitboarding.comso that we can update it via thepersonal access token of Netlefi. Now,that's really important because we cancode, we can build landing pages, we cancreate lead magnets, we can createsqueeze pages, etc. using our customdomains on Netlify as you can see righthere. So, it's deploying to a profitboardroom site and adding the customdomain. And I don't have to log in toNetlify. I don't have to mess around,etc. And it's just so much more chill,right? You can see it adding the customdomain down here. So, if we go on to theclawbot now, you can see that we havethis all set up, right? So we got thenew landing page deployed to theairprofitboarding.com with the videoembedded blah blah blah. If we go to thearprofitboarding.com you can see it'snow added this right here right with theVSSL and the link. If we click on thelink it takes us straight to the landingpage for the AR profit boardroom andwe've just updated all the informationfor this particular page. Pretty nicequick and simple to set up as well.Right. So now if we go on to Google, wetype in AR profit boardroom. We've gotthis page ranking number one. And it isthe page that we just deployed and codedon Telegram using the Netifi personalaccess token. All right. And that's howfast and easy it is to do this. Okay. Iactually need to delete this because Iliterally just showed it on the livestream. But that's basically how you canuse this, right? So you can see hereit's all set. New landing page deployedto blah blah blah added right here. Andthat is working pretty nicely indeed. Soif you want to learn how to use that aswell, what I'm actually going to do isI'm going to say give me a setup guidefor linking and coding projects withNetlefi in simple language so thatanyone can learn how to do this, right?And then you've essentially got like anoode IDE inside Telegram set up thatcan basically code and create landingpages for you even if you don't know howto code or even if you don't really knowwhat you're doing, right? And I wouldsay that's an insane ID. I've never seenan IDE that you can use like this insuch a simple way. All right. So, forexample, here I'm going to take thisguide. Imagine this to say write thewhole thing in markdown. And then we canformat the guide properly. And if youwant to learn how to create beautifullanding pages like this, you can usingClawbot, Telegram, and Netleify. Prettyinsane. It's great info. Thank you verymuch. If you want to see anything elsein particular, just let me know cuz I'mhappy to link or test new things for youand show you new crazy stuff. But it isamazing what you can do with this. It'sunbelievable. So, we've got the wholething set up right here. Let's copythat. We'll paste that in. So, we gotthe whole page here. There we go. Now,we can go back to our profit boardroom.Just go inside the SP update sectionhere. Go to Clawbot, you'll find thethree-hour course plus a whole setupguide. And if you want to learn how toset up Netify Wolf Mobile, you can do itright there. All right, so let's justrecap on what we've done so far todaycuz we have shown a lot of cool stuff.An insane amount really. All right, solet's talk about what have we done withMobile. You can publish blog postsdirectly to WordPress. You can use thisas an AI SEO agent. Communicate viamessaging apps like Telegram. Create AIavatar videos. Create voice notes in acloned version of your voice as weshowed earlier. Send emails. Organizeyour calendar. What else we got here?I'll be doing that course today. I hopeit helps you a lot. That's what it'sdesigned for. So, I'm glad you can enjoythat. Yeah. And if anyone else iswatching and wants access to the course,join the AR profit board. Just to recap,publish blog post directly to WordPress.Use this as an AIO agents, create avatarvideos, create voice notes. You can alsocreate animations. Can it hook up tonotion? Yes, it can. We can talk aboutthat in a second. Actually, we'll dothat in a second and hook it up tonotion. If you go back to clubbot, Ican't remember whether I've linkedGoogle Drive or not. So, I'm just goingto say, okay, send a quick email toJulian Goldie@gmail.comsaying hello. If not, I might have todownload the JSON to set that up. We'llsee if that's ready or not. Boom. Allright. Message delivered. Hello fromClawbot. Check your inbox. Let's have alook. Yeah, look at that. Can sendemails, too. So, we said hello fromClawbot from me at julengolder.com andjust blasted it straight over. Crazystuff, isn't it? Crazy stuff. All right.And so, we can send emails with this.And then also, you can code with nocode. Deploy landing pages to customdomains as you can see. So, let's tryhooking it up to notion. I don't reallyuse notion that much, but I'm prettysure I can get my head around how to usemobile with notion. So, let's try thisout. Log in over here. All right. Andthen I'm going to go inside clawbot andI'll say, okay, how to connect you tonotion. By the way, if anyone else iswatching, you want help, you want adviceon this stuff, feel free to ask nowwhilst I'm online. I don't know how longI'm going to be doing this stream for,so feel free to ask now whilst I'monline. You've got my attention. That'swhat I'm here for. All right. So, here'swhat we need to do. We need to go to myintegrations, new integration, name it.Okay. And then get the API key. Allright. So, I'm just going to do thatright now. Obviously, I'm not going toshare my screen when I do that. So, ifwe go back to notion here, we'veactually set this up with Claudebot. Allright. So, if we go inside here, we canconnect Clawbot. So, we could say, okay,create a new page called X with notesabout Y, right? or add a row to the docsdatabase or search notion for anythingabout right. So if we say okay create anew page called maltbot and tell meeverything I need to know about it rightor just create a short beautiful notionabout it what that should do is useclawbot to actually create the pagewhich we'll check out in a second andonce it's done as well I'll add a guideinside the AR profitable volume on howto connect notion step by step toclaudebot so hopefully this helps you asmuch as you can Muhammad says what youBro, so right now we're connectingmobile directly to notion so that it cancreate pages and connect to our databasedirectly. Right? So you can see here forexample we have now created this newpage about maltbot. It automatically didit directly through telegram and that islooking pretty beautiful, right? Lookhow cool that is. That was crazy easy.All right. So what I'm going to do now Iwant to show you something else that'spretty interesting here that most peopledon't know. So if we go inside the chathere and we say okay now create abeautiful guide about how to connectnotion to mobile right but I need you tomake sure that it's in markdown formatdon't add any tables cuz you can'treally have tables directly inside theschool and then also add emojis plusexplain it in simple third gradelanguage step by step and and then savethis as a skill called guide creationwhich I'll use for creating whenever I'mcreating guide or what else SOPs etc.Okay, so just to recap here, we'velinked this to notion. It's created apage and then what I want to do isbecause we connected it to Mobotdirectly and it already understands theprocess. I'm going to show how to dothis and then add the guide to a profitboard. But the cool thing is now that itsaved the process, right? So itunderstands, okay, got to add emojis,it's got to simplify the language, gotto make it look beautiful and easy toread. And then I've got to write it inmarkdown because it knows that it'sgoing to save it as a skill. And thenevery time I ask it to create an SOP ora guide inside Telegram, it can do thatand it will remember that right usingthe context that I've given it. So thisis what it's all about. Video sideeffects says, "Great information. Thankyou for sharing. It's always a pleasure.Thank you very much for watching."Mind-blowing. Yeah, for sure. I want toautomate posting on Pinterest usingbrowsers. Is that possible? clawbot.Yep, you can do that. You just got to becareful. I would recommend using the APIconnection instead of using browser usecuz I think if you're using browser use,it can probably pick up the IP address,something like that, which I wouldn'trecommend. Instead, what I'd recommendis using a maybe you want to use a proxyor an API. I would go with the API to behonest. I think that's probably the bestway. There might be some tools out theredesigned to help you do that, but yeah,you could certainly do that insideClawbot. Sorry, Mbot. Keep forgetting.All right, so it's saved that. Now it'screated the guide. We've got the guideright here. Now this page is private.All right. So if you want to learn howto connect Maltbot directly to notion,let me add the full guide inside thesection here. We'll call this Mbot,formerly known as Claudebot. Then we'llgo down here and add the information forthe All right. If your goal was tocreate automation that answers phonecalls and books client visits in thecalendar, would you use Corbot? If so,how? I would use something like 11 laps.Right. You don't need Clawbot for that.Clawbot is good for giving it tasks, butif it's something like answering a call,Clawbot could help you set up theautomation, but you'd be better offusing 11 Labs and then just attaching aphone number to 11 Labs. That's what Iactually did in the background. Thankyou so much. I will definitely be in theclassroom today. Always happy to help. Ithink that's pretty much it, peeps. Allright, so just to recap, what can you dowith Maltbot? With Maltbot, I've shownyou that you can publish blog postsdirectly to WordPress. You can use thisas an AI SEO agent. You can communicatevia messaging apps like Telegram. Youcan create AI avatar videos. You cancreate voice notes in the clone versionof your voice. You can send emails,organize your calendar, createanimations with reotion the skill there.Host it with alarm. Hook it up to notioncode with no code. Deploy landing pagesto custom domains. As we can see on thisbeautiful page right here and yeah, it'ssuper powerful. How to set up clawbot ormobile with NA10. So you would just linkthe API key directly, right? So youwould go inside Clawbot and you say,"Okay, what do you need to link youdirectly to NA10 and then it willactually tell you what you need?" Andthen you would just grab an API key fromNA10, right? And connect it directly sothat it can operate it for you. Buthonestly, like from everything that I'veseen, you don't really need NA10anymore, right? NA10 is pretty simple.But yeah, you just grab the NA10 URL foryour workspace and then the API key andthen boom shackle. You can list all theworkflows. You can trigger work. You canenable and disable stuff. You can getworkflow details and also can check thehistory of stuff as well. All right. So,thanks very much. Video side effectssays thank you. Always happy to help.Thanks everyone for watching. If youwant to get a full 3-hour course onMaltbot, if you want to get all my besttrainings, I've created a ton of stuffon my SEO with Mobot, how to build andautomate anything with Mobot. You see,these are full step-by-step guides. thatyou can see. We've also got Maltbot AIbrowser agent too and a maltbotmasterass as you can see. Right. Soeverything moldbot we've got inside theAR profit boardroom and you can get afull guides latency step by step today.Steal them from me. Learn how to setthis up. You can control your browser,control Chrome, you can send emails,deploy websites, and it all workedreally well today, right? It wasinsanely good. So, this is by far themost powerful technology I've ever seenthis year when it comes to AI and it'savailable to everyone. It's open source.It's basically what Siri should havebeen and it's the closest thing I thinkwe have to Jarvis. The other cool thingI like about it is it's so easy. Youdon't need to be technical to use it,right? Anyone can use it. So, feel freeto get that inside the AR profitboarding link