and easy. Allright. So, let's try some of the winsthat Damian recommends. Check my last 10emails to tell me which ones actuallyneed a response or research and give mea three point. Let's try this one.Research. I just don't want to show myemails on a a live stream to be honestwith you. Didn't fancy that. So, let'stry this out. Research Goldie agency andgive me a three bullet summary of whatthey do. Boom. All right, I got itworking. All right, that was messy.Messy, messy, messy. Tell you that forfree. All right, so eventually gotworking. What I have to do is justrestart the terminal, run through theinstructions again, re get the token,and then input it in. And finally, youcan see it works now. So, let's try thisagain. We're going to take the examplelike this, plug this in, hit enter, andnow you can see that's beginning towork. And you can also see this isrunning inside Telegram as well. So, wesaid working and it said yes, I'm here.Let's go. And you can see now forexample if we say okay um researchJulian Goldie it actually do a websearch about Goldie agency and it'sfound information about us. So this isactually working now which is awesome.So now what we can do is see what we gothere inside the skills. I'm interestedto know what the best skills to use withthis to be honest what people are doingwith this. Let's see what we can do withthis. So let's see if we can connect itto our emails as well. We'll go insidehere. Okay. Can we email? It's gotworkspace here. We'll try and installit. So, it can it's got three ways ofdoing that. It can do IMAP, email API,or browser automation. I'm going to sayGmail API. So, try and set this up forlet's see what we got here. So, we gotto run this in the terminal. Let's trythat. That is a lot of work just to getthis working. Um, let's see what else wecan do here. Honestly, I'm not that I Istill don't get it. Like, compared toother stuff, it doesn't seem thatinteresting. Let's try and install Bird,which is this Twitter bot. So you canuse Twitter CLI for reading, searching,posting, engagement, etc. And we'll goinside the chat here. And then you gotto log in to actually search. I wouldn'tlike to connect Clawbot to my Twitteraccount to be honest. Like I thinkthat's super risky. I think I thinkthat's a little bit dodgy to be honestwith you. Fat J says, "You read in thechat. The thing about it is this isbasically a proto AGI if you understand.I'd like to know how you think it's anan a photo a AGI compared to anythingelse. For me, what I've seen is likeit's not it's not really doing anythingnew, you know, like you can alwaysalready do browser automation. You canalready control your browser with uhClaude and the browser agent. I'm notseeing how it's different versusanything else. How does it bypass thingsum if going on TikTok and face thingslike being recognized as a bot? So, ituses browser automation and then youhave to log in manually from what I'veseen. Um so, it's just not that usefulcompared to anything else. You can seethat it's actually searched uh Twitterdirectly here using browser automation.But let's see if this is is thisactually like uh let's have a look here.Is this actually a quote? Is this a realquote? Yeah, it is. Yeah. So, I thinkwhat it's done is it's probably searchedGoogle directly for Twitter cuz itcouldn't get into to Google. You have tolike log in with your own account. Um Nsays it's a skin at best for marketingMCP servers or automate workflows. Yeah,I would agree. I would agree. It seemslike a I mean you could already do thisinside for example NA10, right? Youcould connect NA10 to Anthropic and thenusing Anthropic you could connect uhNA10 to to that and then just go on yourTelegram or your WhatsApp. I've shownvideos about that before. It doesn'tseem to do anything new that I've testedout. Also, you can't rein it in on yourknees and it's proactive. Doesn't it nowhave access to your Google Workspace? Itdidn't actually work. Um it reallystruggled with that and it was prettydifficult to set up. It seemed morecomplicated than it needed to be to setup. I honestly think like cowork wasmore impressive when it came out. Abduswatching from Egypt. Good to see here.Guy says, "Claude, don't you know thisstuff rarely works." Does a clawbot alsohave voice? Uh, so you can use Telegram,right? You can plug in the voice righthere and just command it with voice ifyou prefer. We got some viewers from Wegot Anesso from Mexico and we got aMuhammad from Pakistan. Welcome here.It's co-work with a brain. I'll beinterested to know like what can forexample what can clawbot do that co-workcan't do that would be interesting toknow what else we got here so viewchannels instances you can see theinstances so you can see where it'srunning right here as well which ispretty useful sessions chron ah this iscool all right so we've got this chronjob section here basically what you cando is you can schedule events and tasksright so you can say okay every singleday um at this time on his schedule gooff and do this. That that's prettyuseful cuz he can't currently do uhschedule tasks inside Claude. But thatwould be great for example for us. Likewe're always coming up with new ideasfor the air profit boardroom. It couldjust go off and do that daily. So that'spretty useful. I would say that'sprobably the the best thing I've seenabout this so far. The skills don't seemto be that good compared to anythingelse I've used. I honestly prefer usingclaw code with skills or anti-gravitywith skills seems to be way better.We've got nodes section here. Config.You can actually add more skills insidethis section as well. So you can load upskills. I think you can just add a zipfile with all the skills that you wantto install, which is pretty good. Let'ssee if you can do that. So we click onadd. Nothing happens. You also see how Ican't really scroll down here. Um the UIis a bit messy. Like for example here,if I want to go further down, I have tolike zoom out. I can't just like scrolldown normally. So it's not thatresponsive. It's okay. I mean it'sinteresting. I don't see what all thehype is about. It doesn't really blow mymind in any way. Chat GPT isscheduleuler and it's called Pulse.Yeah, but I mean chat GPT. Who's usingthat in 2026 January 2026? Who's usingChat GBT? Does it have a reminderfeature? Yeah. So, you've got thescheduleuler. So, it can do that foryou. Can the bot automate making videoslike edit videos however would do oranother service can do it. You can dothat with Remotion, right? So, you caninstall the skill reotion and then fromthere go for it. All right. So, forexample, if you if you wanted to editvideos or create videos with uh Clawbot,I think you could probably add this as askill. So, let's try this out. And let'ssee what we got here. Fat J says, "Okay,I'm going to make an example. You havean idea on the road about something, youtell it to clawbot, and it's going towork on it in the background." So, youcan do that with like pretty muchanything, right? You can do that withclaw code or co-workum almost anything I can think of youcan do that with, right? N says this isnot unique at all. I would have to agreethere. Remote Telegram access to clawbotto have it to work. Yeah, but you can dothat with NA10 already. Edit Tik Tokvideos. Splice them up together. Um, notsure whether it could do that, but yeah,I think you could with claw code. Canyou tell Claude code to code somethingwhen you are not on a PC? Yeah, thatmakes sense. But you could do it insidethe app, right? You could just get chat.Uh, you could get Claude inside the webapp to just code something up for you onthe mobile app. So, that's what I woulddo. Uh, this is really struggling withthe remotion skill. Overall, I'm goingto say I think this is a bit too muchhype for my liking and I'm the guy whocalls everything insane. So, it'sinstalled this now with Claudebot. Infact, Jay says, "I'm telling you thehype has a reason." Trust. Tell me whatthe reason is though. I'm not sure whatthe reason is. I feel like no one canarticulate the reason it has so muchhype. Why is everyone using Mac Miniwith this? Cuz it can run um cuz it'skind of like siloed away if that makessense. and it can run autonomously on aMac mini whilst you go and do otherstuff. So remotion has been installed.So if we say okay create a video usingremotion for an SEO agency to talk aboutSEO rankings. Let's see if it can dothat. If you can't do this then you knowwhat are we doing here? Let's see. AJsays it's basically a person that worksfor you and thinks about stuff by itselfand comes up with his own ideas based onneeds. I've not seen it do that so farwhenever I've asked it to do something.Um and then also Claude does thatalready. So, if I need ideas and stuff,then I I just ask Claude. So, let's seeif it can work its magic here. So, saygive me a cat a video of a cat dancingin the rain after we've installedRemotion. See if it works. Can it scrapeexpost? I think it can, but you'd haveto log in, if that makes sense. It itdid actually scrape expost before, butit just did a quick Google, right? So,if we scroll up here to the results, youcan see, for example, actually searchedX here, and then it listed a bunch ofthe latest quotes from X, like you cansee. So apparently it's created thevideo now. Let's see. Can you open upthe video? Can it take a task to solvelike agent zero? Yeah, it's basicallylike agent zero. That's actually what itexactly what it reminds me of. It's verysimilar to agent zero. Fat J says youneed to spend a lot of time to set itup. Sadly it can take hours peoplesaying. I mean you've set me seen me setit up today and it took about I wouldsay 30 to 40 minutes to set this up. Seeif it was that smart it would have justopened up this video right this oneright here. So it's giving me the outputdetails but it doesn't tell me exactlywhere it is. I will say this is Oh,there we go. All right, it's opened itup now. So, let me show you the videothat it's created. So, this is the videothat we've generated using a combinationof Remotion with Claude Bot. So, let'splay this back. That looks pretty nice.It's a cat dancing in the rain, having agreat time on a 10-second loop. Um, butoverall, I can't see it doing anythingthat Claude Co can't do. You know, it'sjust got a nice UI. That's thedifference probably. It's like a nicerapper kind of. Do you know what itreminds me of? It's a bit like whenManners first came out. When Mannersfirst came out, it was like this and itsort of blew everyone's mind. There wasa lot of hype about it, but in reality,it was just like a a small incrementalstep forward with AI. Can it use humanavatars like Sor like quality, not justgraphics? So, I think the best way to dothat would just be to get Claudebot toopen up Sora with browser control andjust use it directly right there. Um,but that's basically it. That's how youcan use this. So, I've shown you how toset up Clawbot. We've tested out. Myrating, it's okay. It's not mind-blowingjust yet. Maybe if you add some moreskills to it, it would be really, reallycool. Um, but honestly, from what I cansee so far, it's not that impressive.Can it spawn sub agents? Not from whatI've seen. You know, it's it's not goingto run. Um, like anti-gravity, I wouldsay, is probably still better for subagents and stuff. So, thanks so much forwatching. If you want to get the detailson exactly how to install this, you canget them inside the AI success lab,completely free. All the installationinstructions that I use to set this upare inside the AI success lab. I've alsogiven you a 30-day plan on how to masterthis. I've shown you how it works, whatpeople are building with it, how itworks. Um, I've also included 100prompts you can test inside the videonotes from today as well with ClaudeBot. So, if you want to try this outyourself, you can. And if you've notalready, check out the AI ProfitBoardroom. This is an amazing communityfocused on helping you actuallyimplement um the stuff that I teach onmy YouTube channel, right? So, if youwant to grow, scale, save time with AI,you can do that inside the AI profitboardroom. Each week, what I actually dois test stuff like this. I mean, you sawhow long it took to to set this up. Iactually condense each week uh 80 hoursof my work into a one minute update sothat you know, okay, here's what's worthchecking out and here's what's to ignorebased on this, right? Um, and honestlylike with clawbot today from what I'veseen, maybe I'll do more tests, but sofar from what I've seen, it's not thatimpressive. I would probably put it inthe me category. Um, so feel free tocheck this out. Link in the commentsdescription inside the community, youcan ask any questions you have, get helpand support whenever you need it. Youcan also jump on coaching calls if youneed to get help in real time and askquestions in real time. And then alsoinside the classroom here, we've got afull course that shows you how to gofrom complete beginner to expert with AIautomation, plus how to build your firstAI agent in under 5 minutes. You'll seeall my best playbooks for stuff that'sactually useful. So, for example, if youwant to learn how we automate X, how weautomate newsletters, shorts, AI avatarvideos, screen shares for AI avatarvideos. It's all inside the AI profitboardroom. We also have a full agencycourse here that shows you exactly howto get more clients with AI. On top ofthat, you can watch about the coachingcall recordings. If you want to learn AISEO and how to rank and be visibleinside AI search engines so that chatGPT and other AIs actually recommendyour business, check this out. And thenalso you can see our full road map here.This is a full course on how to grow aYouTube channel based on what's workingfor me. The other thing that I would sayhere is it's not just me winning withAI. So for example, if we go inside thewin section here, you can see all thecool stuff that people are building andcreating with AI. Lots of people gettingwins. It's not just me. Um, and this isjust an empowered community that'sfocused on helping you growing andlearning with AI. So, what we got here?G says, "These live videos are great.Always happy to help." Um, and we haveMike who says, "I have it running asetup to run claw code and Gemini CLItogether for stuff and orchestratingthrough GitHub like an actual dev team."That's quite an interesting use case.Um, and it can run full clawed sessions.Everyone is losing their minds overMobot right now. They say it's the mostpowerful AI ever created. I spent daystesting it and what I discovered iswild. Your feed is flooded with maltbotposts. People saying this is the nextbig thing. The AI that's going to changeeverything. I spent days testing thistool and what I found is not what you'dexpect. If you're thinking about usingMaltbot for your business, you need tohear this first. Here's what Maltbotactually is. It's Claude Opus runningthrough Telegram. They added schedulingso the AI can message you first insteadof waiting for you to start the chat.That's it. That's the whole thing.People are acting like this is brandnew, but we've had tools that do thisfor months. Cloud scheduling exists.Agentic workflows exist. Running AIthrough messaging apps exists. The setupprocess was painful. I followed thetutorials everyone was sharing. Set upmy Telegram bot, connected it to Claude,and halfway through I had to use regularClaude just to debug why Maltbut wasn'tworking. Think about that. I needed AIto fix my AI setup. That should tell youhow ready this tool is for normalpeople. I tested all the main features,the scheduling, the automation. I set upmorning messages, had it organize files,monitor data, basic stuff people claimMaltbot is perfect for, and it workedexactly the same way Claude alreadyworks. Now, let me show you somethingnobody is talking about. The actual usecases people are sharing online. I sawsomeone post about using Maltbot toorganize their downloads folder by filetype. Your computer already does this.You don't need AI for that. Just clicksort by type in your file manager. Ittakes 2 seconds. Then there's all theresearch talk, people saying they useMaltbot for Twitter research, marketmonitoring, summarizing their groupchats every day, checking news updates,tracking trends, and I'm sitting herethinking, what does any of that actuallydo for your productivity? How doesmonitoring Twitter help you work better?How does summarizing chat messagesimprove your workflow? How does readingnews summaries help you get things done?It doesn't. That's the answer. These arewhat I call productivity theater tasks.things that make you feel busy withoutactually helping you accomplish realwork. They sound impressive when youtalk about them on social media, butthey don't move you forward. And that'sfine if you just want to play with cooltechnology. But if you're trying to savetime and be more productive, this isn'tit. This isn't the path forward. Here'swhere things get wild. The viralexplosion wasn't natural. The originalproject was called Claude. Anthropicsent to cease and desist. They had torebrand to Maltbot. When they changednames, the old social media handlesopened up. Bad actors grabbed them, setup fake profiles, made it look connectedto the real project. The token wentviral. People rushed in thinking it waslegitimate. Then came the rugpool,massive crash, and a lot of that viralcontent you saw was part of thiscoordinated scheme. Now, here's whatreally worries me. The security is adisaster. People are hosting Maltbot onservers with zero authentication. Nopasswords, no security, nothingprotecting their setup. Someone scannedthe internet and found over 900unsecured maltbot instances. That meansover 900 people have AI bots runningwith no protection. Anyone can accessthem, read