to is really in this casethe prompt because we want to make surethis prompt comes from the contentoutput of the image prompt generationAI. And we're going to drag this here.And there you go. The rest of the stuffI'm going to just leave as is. But ofcourse as you were generating it you canspecify it to your requirements. But inthis case, I'm going to hit executestep. And there we go. We got it out. Sothe next note I'm going to introducehere is just a simple weight node. Nowthis is image generation. So which meansit's going to be pretty quick. As you'veseen the status here is already created.But in this game, I'm just going to wait15 seconds for it to complete. And I'mgoing to hit execute step just topopulate this note. And just before I goany further, I want to go back here andpin this data so that I don't have torerun that every single run. It's goingto consume my API token. So I want to becareful about that. And while that'sspinning up, what I want to do is startsetting up the get HTTP request, whichis the same node here. But in this case,I want to go back to waist speeds APIdocumentation and hit the curl commandfor get result and go back to theworkflow import curl. Import the entirething. And again, all the fields are nowconfigured correctly. With the get API,we want to make sure that we're pastingin the right request ID. As you can see,there's a variable here called therequest ID. And we just want to first ofall toggle this to expression and thenremove this with our request ID from thewheat node. And we're just going to dragthat right between the slashes here. Andwhat we're doing here basically is we'recalling the post API and way speed isreceiving the image request and it'sprocessing the image. We waited 15seconds and now we're going to get theimage. But we got to tell way speedwhich image that we're trying to fetchand we're doing that by dragging the IDinto the API endpoint. Here underauthentication we're going to choosegeneric credential type header O and thesame credential here and of coursesimilarly we can toggle off the headersbecause we already have it within ourcredential. Rename this to waste feedget and we're going to hit execute step.So we're seeing a couple things in thepayload here but essentially the URLlink of the image is the output linkhere. All right. So I'm just going tocopy that and paste it to see what theimage looks like. So this is what theimage looks like. is a cat jumpingthrough hoops of rainbows. That lookspretty cool. All right, now that that'sdone, again, what happened here is thatthe get API was called after the statushas been created. So, the result existsand is valid. But what about the casewhen speed is taking its time to createan image or when it's a video generationmodel, it's probably going to takelonger than just 15 seconds. So, in thescenario where the get API call is made,when the image is not ready, it's notgoing to give you any result. in factit's going to bug out or error out. Inthat case, a workflow is going to stopwithout rerunning it because essentiallyit's just going to error out on thisnode. So what we want to do to avoidthat scenario is we want to create an ifloop. In this case, what we want to do,we want to drag the status string fromthe waist get http request andessentially say if it's equal tocompleted, then it is true. I'm going tohit execute step here and it goes intothe true branch because the status hasbeen completed. So the if branch actslike a logic node where it can filterout the output based on the logic thatyou've set. So in this case the logicthat I've set is for the status to becompleted and that's true. It fallsunder the true branch and it cancontinue. In this case I'm going to setthe Gmail note. Send a message. I'vealready set up my Gmail account.Essentially I'm going to send this tomyself. The subject is image generated.And I'm going to drag the now variablejust so that we can tell by the titlewhen this is created. And email type canbe text because I just want the link inthe email. Nothing fancy. And themessage we're going to drag the outputhere so that the link to the image issent to me via email. All right. So I'mgoing to hit execute step. As you cansee, the email has been sent. And let'ssee what the email looks like. So theemail looks like this. Nothing fancy.It's just passing on the link to myemail address to my email inbox. I'mgoing to hit that and open it up. Andhere we go. That's the image. So goingback to the workflow or to the if loop.So this is what happens if the status iscompleted. The image is ready and itgets passed on to the Gmail. However, ifthe image is not ready, it's going tofall into the false loop because thestatus would now say that it's notcompleted. It's probably going to saythat it's processing. It's going to fallinto the false branch. In this case, wewant to wait for another 15 seconds orany other arbitrary weight amount. We'rejust going to name that wait another 15seconds. Okay. And I'm going to hitexecute step. In this case, nothing isgoing to happen because it's under thefalse branch. 15 seconds. And after wewait another 15 seconds, what we want todo is to loop it back to the get node orthe HTTP request node here. If the imageis not ready, the status is going to sayincomplete or in progress and that'sgoing to fall into the false branch andit's going to wait 15 seconds and it'sgoing to try to get the image again. Andthen if it's still not ready, whathappens is it's still going to fall intothe false run. It's going to waitanother 15 seconds and try to get itagain. And it's going to stay in thisloop until the image is ready. And thenit's going to fall into the true run andkick it out into the Gmail. Cool. I hopethere's a clear explanation on how tobuild this workflow from scratch. In thenext section, we're going to build atexttovideo workflow where is somewhatsimilar to what we've built here withthe exception that it's going togenerate a video for us. I'll see youthere. In this section, we're going tobuild a text to video workflow, which issimilar to the previous section, whichwas a text to image workflow with someminor but important distinctions. Now,just like the previous workflow, we'regoing to start off with a chat triggerso that you can pass on thespecification of the video that you wantto create and that's going to be passedon to a video prompt pigeon instead ofan image prompt pigeon. This time we'regoing to do a text to video modelon V3.in your labs, you're going to alreadyhave these two nodes set up.And again, the only difference in thiscase from the previous nodeis the system prone that we'vepre-populated in the video prom agent.So you don't have to. So if you togglethe expression, and I'll blow it up soyou can see it. It is now saying thatyou're an expert tech video generationprom engineer working inside anautomation. And again, you can generatethis yourself through GPT or any LLM ofyour choice to act as a prompt engineer.I'm not going to read the whole thing,but it is pretty similar to the text toimage generation prop engineer before.Now, continuing to build the workflow,the next node that you want to hit hereon your labs will be the HTTP requestnode again.And this time, we're going to waste feedand explore models. We're going to typein VO3and we're going to filter out text tovideo category only.And as you can see, as you can see,there are two models here. V3 fast andregular V3. In this case, we're going topick V3 fast.>> Google V3 Fast is now on WSE AI. It'llblow your mind and go try it now.>> So, just for a warning for V3, it ispretty expensive to run. And as you cansee, the request itself will cost me$3.20 per run,but as you can see from the samplevideo,it is pretty high quality. So, let's tryit out.So, toggle to the API documentationsection. And what you want to do here,very similar to what we've done in thepast section, is to copy the entire curlcommand and go back to the workflow.We're going to import the entire curlcommand here.And again this is a post methodand we're going to say waste postfor the name of the nodeauthentication. We've set it up earlierin the previous section. So we're goingto just select the same generic headeroff with waist speed credential demoand we're going to toggle off the sendheaders and focus on the send bodysection. And just before I complete setthis up, I'm just going to populate theprevious nodes just by saying createa video ofof five gorillason a boathaving a great fishing trip.Okay, so I'm going to type that into thechat note. It's going to pass it on tothe video prom agent. And let's checkout what's the output from the videoprom agent. It says a lively cinematicscene of five gorillas on a woodenfishing boat in the middle of a sunlitlake. Laughing cheering as a reel in bigthrashing fish splashes of water in agolden sunlight. All right, lookingpretty good. Uh, so let's try that out.And we're going to open up the HTTPrequest node here. Going back to theJSON body section of the way speed postnode.What we want to take a look here, as youcan see, there are a couple parametersthat were not mapped correctly. And thissometimes happens when the curl commandeither wasn't formatted correctly orwasn't parsed over in the correct way.So, in this case, what I want to do isI'm just going to use JSON um the rawbody JSON. And in this case, I'm justgoing to copy the entire body of theJSON curl command and go back to theworkflow and paste the entire body. Andfrom here, essentially what I can do isI'm going to replace this with thestring content from the video promotion.Right? So I'm just going to delete that.And I'm going to drag this again. I needto toggle this expression. Let's blowthat up and drag this content over inbetween the prompt. And you can take alook at the right hand side for theresult, which is yes, the prom is now alively cinematic scene of five gorillason a wooden fishing boat in the middleof a sun lake. Cool. Aspect ratio,duration, and whether or not to generateaudio. And these are formats andconfigurations that you guys can decidebased on your requirements. But this isgood to go for now.So I'm going to hit execute step here.And as you can see,the post request is successful.So, as what we've done with the imagegeneration workflow, what we want to dohere is to wait 15 seconds. And we mightneed a little longer than that becauseit's a video and it's high quality aswell. So, it might take longer than 15seconds, but we're just going to put 15seconds for now. And we're going toexecute stat to populate that. Ofcourse, what I want to do is to pin thisdata here. Again, it was is quite costlyfor me to run the API call. So I want tomake sure that I don't have torepopulate this data again and again.So the wait 15 seconds is done. The datahas been parsed through. What we want todo now is to introduce the HTTP requestget node. And again going back to theAPI documentation here. I'm just goingto copy this.I'm going to import curlthe entire thing. and it's going to justconfigure all the fields that arerequired here. I'm going to toggle thisto expression and the same thing as wedid before, we're going to replace thisrequest ID with the video ID so that itknows which video to fetch as a result.And then in terms of authentication,we've already set it up before. So,we're just going to pick the same one.Toggle off the send headers part becausewe already done the authentication onthe previous bit.Rename this towaist speed getand I'm going to hit execute step.So as you can see the status has beencompleted. So we can actually go over tothe next node. But before I do that,again, just as what we've done in theimage generation workflow, what we wantto do is introduce an if loop becausejust in case that we run the get API andthe status is not completed, meaning thevideo is still processing that theworkflow doesn't all break down. Right?So, we're going to drag the status hereand we're going to say that if it'sequal to completedthat it is true. So, we're going toexecute the step and there we go. Itgoes to a true branch. But what we'reinterested here is that in the casewhere it's not true, which means it'snot completed, that we're going to waitfor another 15 seconds.All right, I'm going to set that as 15seconds. Okay,and we're going to loop this back to theget HTTP request node. And whatessentially we've done is that in casewhen the status is not completed, it'sgoing to go into the false branch. It'sgoing to wait another 15 seconds andit's going to try to get the video. Andif it's still not done, it's going tofall under the false branch. It's goingto wait another 15 seconds and try toget the video again. It's going to go ina loop until the video is ready andbecomes true. And then we can kick thatout to a Gmail note or a Telegram nodeor whatever node in terms of output thatyou want to send it to. All right. Sothen going to configure this send amessage again. It's going to be the samething as before.I'm going to name it video generatedon this particular time. I'm going togive it a time stamp.Drag the now variable. Whoops. Togglethat expression. Drag the now variablehere. And there we go. We're just goingto do text here because I only want topass the output,which is this one over here. Okay.And I'm going to hit execute step.And there you go. Message sent. Let'slook at our email and check out thevideo. So, this is the video link. I'mgoing to click on that. It's going todownload the video. I'll open that up.Okay.All right. So, that was a video.Probably could have done better with theprompt for the videos. Could have toldit to say something or do certainactions and stuff like that. And ofcourse, if you have any particularrequirements in terms of the style ofthe video, you can always tell it that.Right now, it's still a little 3Dish tome. So I definitely can do a bit better.Of course, this is V3 fast. If you wanthigher fidelity, you can definitely picka higher model like just a full V3. Butagain, it is rather costly. V3 is one ofthe costliest model out there for videogeneration. So alternatives to thatcould be CDAN or cling or want which aremodel that available in the sameplatform which is wavepeed.aiand of course a lot of other platformsas well. So that's a quick build alongfor the text to video workflow. And inthe next section, we're going to do animage to video workflow just to completethe whole set. And we can explore how toactually implement or use that in a reallife use case such as a marketing usecase or just for fun. See you in thenext one. So in this section, we'regoing to build an image to videoworkflow from scratch. Just because foran image to video workflow, we're goingto need two inputs. One being the baseimage that the video is going to baseoff. Second being the video generationprompt that we want to send over to thevideo generation model so that it caneffectively craft videos based on theimage as well as your requirements andspecifications. Because of themultivaried inputs that's required here,we do need a centralized way that we cancommunicate with the workflow. In thiscase, a platform that we'll use for thisdemo is Telegram or any othercommunication platform that you spendmost of your time on. So in this case,for this workflow, it gets triggered byeither one of two things. It could be aGoogle Drive trigger, which is when youmight upload an image like this into adesignated Google Drive and that wouldtrigger the event and the workflow andthat's going to send a Telegram chatmessage to you saying that an image hasbeen uploaded and please provide thevideo idea that you want the video tolook like and you can chat basically tothe bot from this Telegram chat sayingcreate a video of a cat jumping throughthe hoop based on this image andparachute opens to safely land the cat.So essentially when you reply to this itwould then activate the second part ofthe workflow which is a telegram triggerand it's going to kick that input intoopen AI. So in this case a video promgenerator that will pass the videoprompt to CES API which in this casewe're going to again use waistfeed as aplatform that will provide the services.So it's going to make a post API callbased on the image that we have. And theway it would do that is as you can seein the first part of workflow afterwe've received a telegram message. Whatthe workflow does it also uploads aparticular image ID onto a Google sheet.And in this node, the agent basicallydips into the Google sheet to get thelatest URL in case you have more thanone image and pass both the video promand the image URL to Cance post API. Andthen the rest remains the same, which isa wait note followed by a get HTTPrequest with an if loop just to makesure that it doesn't break down in casethe video has not done processing yet.And then when it's done processing, it'sgoing to kick it out to either a Gmail,but this case, I think it might actuallybe better if we just replace this with aTelegram node. So there you go. We'regoing to build this from scratch becauseit's an entirely new workflow. So let'sjump right into it. So the first nodeyou're going to start off with is theGoogle Drive note. And the trigger wewant to pick is basically on changes toa specific folder. And essentially whatthis note does is going to monitor thefolder every minute to detect anychanges to that folder. And the changesthat we're talking about specifically