available for the taking ifyou just know how to connect APIs. Andnowadays, to be honest, you don't evenreally have to know how to connect APIs.You just need to be able to communicatethe fact that you want to connect to anAPI to a model. So if you could justsay, "Hey, here's an API. Could you likereally quickly connect to it and thensend a quick test query like XYZ andthen it does?" So, you know, you canactually swoop up a large chunk of likethe economically valuable work onfreelancing platforms, simple one-offqueries that, you know, like businessescommonly require. Hey, I'm usingXplatform, but Xplatform doesn't have aa one-click Zapier integration. How dowe connect to their API? It's so scaryand intimidating. I mean like you canactually solve that really easily notjust for yourself but for other peoplewith a tool like this. In terms of howto actually do the stuff once a workflowstarts for the first few times maybefirst 10 or 15 times I actuallyrecommend watching it work end to end.It seems like this is a big timeinvestment keeping in mind thatworkflows can take you know 30 secondsto a minute to execute. Um, I don'tthink this is anywhere near that big ofa deal because if you just watch thereasoning for a little bit for even likeone or two executions, you typicallylearn more about what's the model iscurrently and actually doing under thehood than you would if you had like 3days of autonomous flows. Uh, and so indoing so, you're very very quickly ableto iterate and make it very very good.You don't have to like stretch thatiteration process out for like weeks ormonths. What's cool too is when youwatch workflows, you get to develop asense of intuition about the reasoningthe model goes through. And I honestlythink there's probably nothing moreimportant, no better skill to developthan intuition surrounding how modelsthink as of the current date. I mean,these models are going to run oureconomy very soon and they're alreadyrunning our economy in many ways. Solike if I am going to spend some timeworking, my whole time working should bespent developing an intuition for howthese models actually function. I mean,it's also really satisfying. It's supercool just to see the model solveproblems and, you know, make logicalconclusions based off information that Iprovided it. And it's usually prettyeasy to pinpoint when the reasoning goessideways. the model will be like waitmaybe I should use this approach andthen you're looking at it you're likewell that's not the approach to usewhich means you can actuallysignificantly cut the amount of time itwould take by just like pressing X andthen pausing the run and then justsaying hey sorry it's actually Y rightway easier to do it that way and thenco-creating with that model also againlets you build that good intuition forhow your workflow is supposed to worknow if I'm handling a really longworkflow like I have a video editingworkflow whose full execution due to youknow the ffmpeg library can take like 45minutes or something I'm not going tojust sit there and watch it obviousobviously because most of it is thescript executing and then my hardwarerunning and stuff, right? So, I'll justopen an extra agent window and then I'lluse what are called background tasks.Background tasks depend on the differentmodel provider and interface that you'reusing. Claude introduced backgroundtasks a while back and I've been usingthe Claude family of models um quite abit recently. So, that's easy. What I'llthen do is I'll set up some sort of hookin my IDE to play some sort of soundwhen the thing is done. Hooks connect tospecific points in the workflow. Uh whatthat means is like if you know myworkflow takes 30 minutes and it's abackground task when it's done I canactually have my computer go duh dingand then you know tell me when the thingis completed. I'll show you guys anexample of that later. Um there's alsonative system notifications. Obviously Ijust find the sounds more reliable forgetting my attention. I get a lot ofnotes nowadays. To set up hooksdepending on the platform you justcreate a mini workflow that triggers thesounds or the animation. So you can justlike give it a cool sound that you wantand then say, "Hey, set up this up sothat when you finish operating umthere's some hook and then it ittriggers this sound and it just playsnatively on my computer because that'llhelp me direct my attention back to youand then like help you with the nextstep." Claude has really gooddocumentation on hooks. Most people thathave built hooks have done so withClaude. You can check their hook docsfor specifics. Um the common use case,as I mentioned, is to play sound whenthe workflow finishes just so you cancheck the output, verify things whichyou wanted. But you can also do thingslike play different sounds for human inthe loop steps where it's like, hey,action required type stuff. Okay, briefexample of me setting up a hook. Here'sa practical guide on setting up hooks.So, first of all, what I'm going to dois I'll say, hey, how's it going? I'dlike you to set me up a hook that playsa nice chime sound every time that oneof my agents is done with a task. Thatway, I'll know to go back to the taskbecause I normally have you alt tabbedwhile I'm doing other things.This already knows that it's a clawedcode hook feature. There are shellcommands that execute in response toevents like tool calls. So now it'sgiving me all this information. First,it's going to do some research. Thenit's going to actually write a script torun the claude code hook. All right. Andit's now adding the hooks configurationwith a little glass sound. I don't knowif you guys heard that, but that's that.It just finished. So yeah, I did justfinish. I'm going to pretend I'm alttabbed somewhere, not paying attention,but I'm not hearing the chime.So, it looks like every time it plays itdirectly, I could hear it.Okay. So, I'm going to back slash checkhooks.I'm just going to start a new Cloud Codeinstance like it's telling me to do.Hey, how's it going?Perfect. And now I hear the chime. So,it's that easy. You can now set let'ssay five of these simultaneously.One,two, three, four. Then I'll just openall these in separate tabs. Then I'mjust going to send to all of them. Writeme a funny poem.Now I will send to all. One, two, three,four, five.Nice. Now, this thing has gone throughand written me funny poems, and I got abunch of chimes, too. Hopefully, youguys could see how this thing could behelpful if you guys were working on acloud code instance withoutnotifications enabled or something likethat, uh, and then you were on anothertab. In practice, I find when you arejuggling a bunch of things and trying tostay in context, but obviously alsomonitoring or orchestrating some sort ofAI flow, um, a big chunk of the time youwill spend is literally just completelywasted time where you haven't given AIthe next instruction. So to reallyeconomize that time, simplest way to doit is just to like have some sort ofnotifying flow. Play a nice chime noiseor I don't know, you could set it up sothe claud window actually pops up everytime it's done. That way, you'll veryquickly go back to this, give it someadditional instructions, and then beable to double up on the return on yourtime. Now, when any workflow completes,you're almost always going to get adeliverable. This is a link or adocument or a summary or something.You'll also usually get some sort ofreport of what happened during theexecution. My recommendation for you isto review the output, confirm that itmeets your needs, and if it does, tellthe model. Let them know. Say, "Thisworked great." If you've had to do sometrials and some some iterations in orderto get this, let the model know thatlike this is what you want and to updatethe directive in execution unless it'salready done. So most of the time thiswill happen automatically, but it'scheap and almost free to say that everytime you get like a really really goodoutput. As I mentioned previously,individual workflows are really useful,but I actually think chaining themtogether is where the real magichappens. I always provide that umbrellaanalogy and I like how my umbrellas aregetting better and more and more umsophisticated as this course goes on. Idon't think I used to see that littlething up there. That's really badass. Umthis is like your, you know, marketingumbrella, you know, your new new clientonboarding umbrella or whatever. Whatyou do is you get all the individualworkflows that you've created, groupthem under this thing, and then nexttime you can just run all of themsimultaneously by just saying, "Hey,trigger the new onboarded clientautomation." This solves the manualhandoff process with the deliverable.Like you could build a lead scraper. Youcould build an enrichment workflow, butwhat that means is this workflow willstart and then it'll finish and say,"Hey, we're done." And then you actuallyhave to take that link and say, "Okay,now do the enrichment workflow. Oh,okay, now we're done." You have to takethat and be like, "Okay, let's actuallysend the emails. Okay, now we're done."Like much better for me just toeliminate that process completely andthen, you know, only check in once we'veactually completed the entire thing,right? Assuming that I've verified thatevery individual step does what it isthat I want it to do because otherwise,yeah, you're basically the bottleneck.And I can't tell you how many times I'vejust had 10 claw instances open or 10Gemini instances open and I just forgetto proceed with one of the steps. It'slike, "Would you like me to send theemail?" And then I'm like, "Where theheck's this damn email?" And then I lookback and I realize, "Oh, I didn'tactually tell it to continue. I wastedlike an hour." So, I've covered similarexamples, but here's another one. Uh,lead scraping is really popular. So, youfind potential customers, then youenrich their emails, then youpersonalize their first line generation.I do this using a casualization workflowI've shown you guys multiple times, butessentially this is all just batchedunder um you know like end toendnew client workflow. So that when I geta new client, it actually goes through,analyzes the client niche, scrapesleads, enriches the emails, and thendoes personalized first lines beforegiving me a Google sheet. It's kind ofcool because this is all stuff that Iwas doing manually step by step. As youget to higher levels of abstraction,eventually we'll have things that arebasically like do all of the marketingfor this campaign and it'll do a reallygood job. When does the agent actuallyrequire our help? Well, sometimes theagent genuinely cannot fix somethingautomatically. And it's rare, but whenthis happens, it'll typically just askyou directly. Usually, it'll provide afair amount of context, which is good.Now, the question is what it was tryingto do, what went wrong, and then whatoptions exist to fix it. Your job isliterally just to look at that and say,"Okay, let's do this then or okay,update the directive to do this or areyou sure you fully tried?" Or, "Have youresearch all of the solutions?" orsomething along those lines. And so, inthis way, you're not only like uh, youknow, like a decision maker at a highlevel. A lot of the time, you're alsojust a motivator. To be honest, I can'ttell you how many times I've had one ofthese agents go on some loop for 10minutes and try and build something and,you know, they get really close, butthen they just can't seem to get the APIspec. And then I say, "Could youresearch the API spec?" And they go,"All right, yeah, I'll go research theAPI." And then they actually go do thething and they get it right on the firsttry. It sounds weird, but a lot of thetime agents don't just need thedecisions made, they also need somelevel of motivation. I've also foundthat sometimes a gets stuck in a reallysilly loop. Sometimes it'll literallyjust like do the same thing over andover and over again and then it'll trythe same next solution over and over andover again and then it'll just chainthose two together and go back and forthand back and forth and back and forth.Who knows why this happens? I'm sure thesmarter the models get, the less thiswill occur. But when this happens, youyou just pause it. You look at thereasoning. You see what's going on. Yousay, "Hey, you've just been doing thesetwo things for the last like 20 minutes.Could you please not do that anymore?Instead, do research on this bestsolution before proceeding." The reasonwhy you do this is because iteration isactually just really cheap. So it's muchbetter to do something than nothing.Like I mean the cost of you sending thisone message or whatever is like cents onthe dollar, right? And then thepotential upside is is very very big.And typically when you have like amassive disparity between the cost andthen the upside, it would take many manymany runs of this thing completelyfailing without returning some sort oflike ROI. And in my case, you know, I'musually capable of doing on the first orthe second try. So when should you jumpin? When should you do let it run akawhen is there human in the loop? The waythat I determine when I should build ahuman in the loop flow or rather Ishould use human in the loop in a in aflow is what is the magnitude of theoutcome and then what is the sensitivityto quality. So if the magnitude of theoutcome is really big aka this singletask matters a ton for my business thenI'm going to step in. If it's verysensitive to quality, as in if there arevery small errors that createdisproportionately large problems, Ialso step in. And if they're high onboth, you absolutely want a human in theloop. A really simple example of this iscold email templates and then outreachsequences. So I do a lot of these,right? It's part of my day-to-day aspart of leftclick. I find that when youhave an AI do 100% of this, performanceis pretty trash. And the reason why isbecause I could actually graph this.There's basically like a reallyuncanny valley essentially where let meseeif this is the let's just say qualityand then this is the perception.If this is zero and then this is one.Notice how it doesn't really matter howmuch quality we put inuntil we reach some like phase changelevel and then all of a sudden it goesboom and then it becomes really reallyreally good. So for my cold email if Ihave AI right AI it's gotten better overthe years. Maybe it started over hereand now it's over here and now it's overhere and now it's over here here here.It doesn't really matter how good AI isat this process because the sensitivityof the perception of my email campaignsis very very high. And so there's thisuncanny valley effect over here wherelike a tiny little improvement inquality massively improves theperception. And so in situations likethis where the model just can't seem toget up this thing, obviously it makessense for me to like review it reallyquickly, change up two or three words,and then boom, all a sudden the qualityis up here, right? It's like, did Iobjectively change the quality a ton?No. But did the perception massivelychange? Yeah. And that might have takenme a few moments of work. So, I findstuff like that is really, reallyimportant on um, you know, cold emailtemplates, outreach. I would always, youknow, given the volume of the task, thefact that I'm sending this stuff out totens of thousands of people, I wouldalmost always at least have a personlooking it over before it runs becauseit's like, well, what if I'm just likeoff by one degree here? I just wasted10,000 emails. I might have as well likespent 2 seconds to fix that up and thensent to 10,000 and then gotten muchbetter results, right? [gasps] Samething with financial documents likeinvoices and even proposals. I mean, Iautomate the hell out of my proposals,don't get me wrong, but I have a humanin the loop stop. I will take a look atthe proposal before I send it out cuzimagine what if you accidentally addedan extra zero or something. It's very,very unlikely, right? But even if thatoccurs like 01% of the time, you screwup on some number because your AI systemjust misinterpreted what you said ormaybe your voice transcription tool waswrong or whatever. The point I'm makingis like the time savings that you get bynot looking it over are not at allequivalent with the negative impact toyou, your reputation, and your businessif you do not look it over. So anywherewhere there's a few percentage points ofquality making a massive difference tothe impact, generally anytime the impactover here and then the quality over herehas this sort of relationship. Pardonme, I didn't draw that cuz I think mytablet's malfunctioning. Um, yougenerally always want a human in theloop. On the other hand, there are a lotof tasks out there that are really lowsensitivity. And when this happens, it'slike the volume of this thing is a lotmore important than being perfect. So,you might as well just let it runcompletely autonomously. Good example ofthat is web scraping. Like, this is nota really high sensitivity task. Modelsare pretty great at this. Creatingmultiple drafts or variations for laterselection is a design pattern that I useall the time. And it's like I don'tactually need to steer it that much cuzthe whole idea is I just want it to likegenerate me a bunch, right? So, that'sreally simple. Generally anything thatsales linearly with quality, right?Where it's like the amount of qualityhere and then the amount of impact sortof at like a onetoone relationship, I'mokay with it going autonomously becauseeven if I'm up here, okay, and it's overhere, the amount of time that I savehaving it automated, you know, at like70% of the full thing versus 100% of thefull thing is typically way better thanwhatever the the actual impactimprovement is. Now, some things shouldnot be automated at all. I don'tactually think that you should havevoice agents doing any sales calls foryou. And this is something I see so manypeople do. Like if you're offering acall, you clearly care a lot about theoutcome of the call, right? It is ahightouch sales conversation. And youknow, if there's even a.1% chance thatsomebody thinks that there's not a realhuman being talking to them, it's like arobot. That's going to have a muchbigger impact on the quality of thatdeal than 0.1%. Right?