I'm going tocall on here is just a simple triggermanually node. And the reason for thatis because we just want to try the HTTPpost node and make sure that everythingworks well before then we can replace atrigger node with something thatactually populates the API calls with aprompt and all the information that youwant to pass on to via 3. So we're goingto run this node just to populate it. Sothe next thing we want to do is we wantto obviously call the HTTP request nodehere and the method that we're going tochoose is post. We're going to go backto VO on Vert.Ex AI API documentation.So, what I want to do is go down. As youcan see, there's a whole HTTP requestcurl command here that you can copy andpaste. However, it's got a lot of stuffthat I might not necessarily need toconfigure for my videos, at least not atthe start. We want to keep it simple asthis is the first run of the demo. Justwant to let you guys see how to set itup simply. So what we want to do here isto scroll down a little bit further andyou see that there is a sample requestthat we can copy right here and this isthe URL endpoint which we want to copyand let's go back to the credential hereand we're going to copy the URL andthere are two things that we need toconfigure the project ID as well as themodel ID. So in fact what you can do isyou can configure this directly from theGoogle cloud console. For example, ifyour project ID is naden- ak-demothe project ID you can get from yourGoogle cloud dashboard. It's not theproject number is a project ID. So youcan just copy this and go back there.Actually I mistyped that. It should bedemo-k. And the second thing you need toconfigure is the model ID. And you canscroll up and see the different types ofmodel ID that you can choose from here.So in this case, I am going to just copyVO3 fast generate the 01. There we go.I'm just going to copy that and go back.Actually, I'm just going to just pastethe entire thing and we're good to go.Delete the post. And there we go. That'sthe URL right there. Now, the way theauthentication is done is going to bedifferent from the way we would callplatforms like way speed or any otherplatforms that uses the typical headeroff API. With Google Cloud, what youwant to do is you want to choosepredefined credential type. And underthe credential type, there's a specificcredential that you want to choose whichis Google OOTH. So that's Google O2 APIwhich you want to choose. And right nowI already have an account set up. Butwhat you want to do is to create a newcredential. And as you can see, it'svery similar to the way we've set up ourOOTH earlier. You have the OOTH redirectURL here, which you have actuallyalready pasted before in the GoogleCloud Console. But just to make sureit's the same URL, you can do that. Butwhat you need to grab is the client IDand client secret. So, what you need todo is just simply go back to your GoogleCloud Console and go to credentials andgo over to your client IDs here andyou've got your client ID. Paste that inand go back again for your clientsecret. And depending on the setting,sometimes your client secret will beunavailable once you've created them andyou're supposed to copy them and storeit somewhere safe. So, if you set thisup previously and you stored itsomewhere, you can use the same clientsecret and paste it into your endcredential. However, if you haven't,what you can do is you can delete thisand add another secret. So that's anoption as well. So again, as you cansee, there's authorized redirect URLshere, which is essentially the same withwhat we see on the NN credentials righthere. And we're good there. So we'rejust going to paste the client secretthere. And just before we go, this iswhere the first run, the way we set itup in the OT previously, we need to adda scope here. So essentially, the scopegrants the bearer all the services inthe Google Cloud Platform that isauthorized by the IM. Since Vertex AI ispart of cloud AI platforms APIs, itrequires an OA token with this scope inorder to accept the request. Now again,before we go back to the workflow and dothat, what you want to do is you want tomake sure that you go over to Vert.ex AIAPIon your Google Cloud console and makesure that you enable this API. And onceyou're done, you can simply click signin with Google and it'll lead you to alogin page. And what you want to do isjust allow the access and you're good togo. So you can see the green bar showsup and the account is connected. So youcan toggle out now. And what you want todo now is toggle over the sand bodysection. And this time we want to chooseuse JSON body. And using JSON body,we're going to just go back to Vertex AIand copy the entire JSON body which isthe simplified version here. And evenbefore you do that, you can configure acouple things in in terms of the promptfor the video and the output to thestorage URI if you are using the GCSbucket and you want the video output tobe stored in that bucket and the samplecount. So I'm going to take that but atthe same time I'm going to configure acouple of fields as well such as theaspect ratio as well as how long I wantthe video to be. And I'm going to justpaste the entire trunk here so you cansee. And it's basically similar to thesimplified version. is just that I'veadded a couple things such as the aspectratio and the duration of the video andI have actually removed the storage URIbecause I didn't set up a GCS bucket andbasically I just wanted to return thevideo in B 64. So if you remove thestorage URI Vertex AI is going to outputthe video in B 64 format back to end. Sonow that's all set up what I want to dois just hit execute step and there yougo. I've got a name here and basicallythis is sending over to Vert.Ex text AIand VO3 is generating the video as wespeak. What we want to do next is sorry,let me just rename this V3. Okay. Allright. And we're going to wait for 15seconds. Going to run that. Andessentially what we're trying to do iswe're waiting for the video to begenerated before we pull for the result.Right? And we're going to create anotherHTTP request node as that's waiting allfor video from text. All right. And themethod is also a post in this case. Andessentially you can get the endpoint URLfrom the pull long running operationright here in the same documentation.But I'm just going to go back and pastethe entire URL here. And underauthentication is the same thing.Predefined credential type. We're goingto pick the same credentials with thesame account under the body. This one'sgoing to be simpler because we're justgetting the results back. And basically,we just need the operation name.And we're going to hit execute step. Asyou can see, it's got an output, but itsays the unsupported output videoduration 5 seconds because I specifiedit to be 5 seconds. So, supportedduration are eight for text to videofeature. So, I'm just going to go backand change this to eight. All right. So,I'm going to rerun this.Run this again. And we're going to hitexecute step.All right. So, we're getting an outputhere. And it says that the node contains6 MBs of data. It's going to slow downthe browser temporarily, but we're justgoing to hit show data here because Iwant to show you the entire format ofit. As you can see, because we didn'tspecify a bucket for the destination ofthe output, it's actually returning abase 64 format into nen. Now what wewant to do next is obviously convertthis into binary. So we can download itand do with it whatever we want. Send itover to whichever platform, email etc.But here what we want to do just beforeI move on is to introduce an if loop asusual because we want to make sure thatjust in case the status isn't done thatit's going to go into a loop and try tofetch it when the video isn't completed.So I've actually picked the wrong typethere. So it should be boolean. We'regoing to make sure that when it's true,which is, you know, it's done, that thatgoes into the true branch. And if itfalls, it goes into another wait note.And this is going to be wait another 15seconds. All right, it's running again.And we're going to loop this back to thepoll. I'm going to run this. Anyway, itwouldn't run because in this case, itshouldn't run. It should fall into thetrue branch. Yep, there you go. Goes thetrue branch goes green. So this is goingto a set for edit field note becauseessentially we want to set this outputwhich is B 64 to strings. We're going tojust call this B64 and we're going tohit execute step there. And the outputis rather large. This is coming back asstrings. And the last step here we wantto do is to convert file. And we'regoing to pick move B 64 string to file.So there we're going to hit show datathere. We're going to drag thisparameter right here into B 64 inputfile and we're going to output the fileas just a typical default name data.Going to hit execute step there. So, asyou can see, we're getting an outputhere which is a data. Now, we can justdownload the file and that's essentiallythe video. Let's open that up.All right. So, we've got now a serenewalk down the beach. It's a good videoby VO3. As you can see, the audio comeswith it as well. Looks pretty good.Yeah. So, we've got the output here. Andwhat you want to do with the output,obviously, you can upload it to drive orjust try to send it somewhere. But thismay not be the way you want to downloadthe video exactly from Vert.ex AI. Butwhat I want to show is just the way thatyou would set all of this up and be ableto call Vertex AI and the VO3 model togenerate text to video through thisworkflow. Of course, the easiest way isto create a GCS bucket and just put thedestination storage as that bucket sothat you can just retrieve it from therelater on. This is just a simple build tolet you guys know how it all works. Butthere are a couple of reasons why we'reusing platforms like misfeed AI insteadof just Vert.ex AI. The reason for thatis because there are other models thatpotentially we want to use. Again, VO3is one of the costlier models eventhough it's one of the best out there inproducing high fidelity videos andaudio. But for everyday use models likeCance and one and cling might be moresuited to your use case depending onyour needs. So for that reason platformslike way speed or foul and there manyother platforms like that actuallyprovide an easy onetop platform whereyou can access all different types ofmodels without the need of setting upall the credentials and API calls justto access that particular model. Hopethis is a good explainer. I'll see youin the next section. Now, let's quicklytalk about a decision you'll face whenstarting out with nitn. Should you usenitn cloud or should you self-host it?Both have their perks and a fewtrade-offs. Starting out with nitn cloudgives you the benefit of simplicity. Youjust sign up and start building. Noservice, no docker setup, no headaches.Updates and security patches are handledfor you. So, you're always on the latestversion as long as you updated on youradmin panel. Plus, if you run intotrouble, you've got official support anduptime monitoring already built in.But the trade-off, cost and control.With cloud, you're paying subscription.And while it's worth it for convenience,you don't get full control over theenvironment, and you're limited to theTSM resources that N&N offers. On theflip side, self-hosting means you gettotal freedom. You decide how much poweryour instance has, where it's located,and who has access. It can be muchcheaper if you already have a serverspace or even want to run it locally forpersonal projects. and you have theflexibility to integrate with internaltools and databases that you might notwant to expose to the public cloud. Tome, this is probably one of the biggestpositive points of self-hosting is thatfor some companies and businesses, it'ssimply not a choice, but a securityrequirement to make sure you host it inthe service. They're not exposed toexternal environments. But again, thedrawback would be maintenance. You're incharge of keeping the server alive,updating addit, and handling securitypatches. If something breaks, there's nosafety net, and you've got to fix ityourself. So to sum it up, choose endedand cloud if you want the easiest pathto get started and don't want to dealwith infrastructure. Self-hosted if youwant full control, tighter integrations,and airtight security.Honestly, there's no wrong answer. Itdepends on your use case. And if you'rejust learning, cloud is usually thefastest way to go. But if you'rebuilding production workflows and wantflexibility, self-hosting gives you thekeys to the kingdom. I'll see you in thenext one. This section we're going tocover the sub workflow tool and how wecan use it to segmentize complexworkflows into easy separate segments sothat it's simple for us to troubleshootand iterate on.Now in this case I'm going to take theworkflow that we've just built in theprevious section which is the image tovideo workflow. And there's a differentarchitecture in the way we built theseworkflows. And I've said previouslythe current workflow has two triggers inone single worksheet. And that might notbe ideal for error handling because whenthe workflow errors out, you have to gointo both the workflows to check whichnode that the error has occurred in.Now, one way to do that is to split theworkflow into two.So in this case, I'm going to take thisas the main workflow.As you can see, the trigger is a GoogleDrive trigger, which is triggered when aphoto was uploaded to the drive. Andonce triggered the next note, it's goingto send a telegram message with thephoto from the drive and ask users forthe video prompt or the video ideas thatuser want to generate the video based onthis image. And after that, it's goingto lock the image URL in the Googlesheet. Now, what we're going to do hereis we're going to add a executesubworkflow node.Essentially, I'm going to show you howto set that node up and how it links toanother workflow and how the entirelogic works when it comes to theinterface.So, in this case, when you choose anexecute workflow node, you're going tohave to choose which workflow that'sgoing to activate or trigger. And inthis case, you can't actually justchoose it from the list. And here, I'vecreated another workflow and I've calledit sub workflow demo. Essentially whatit is is a copy paste of what we had inour image to video workflow and just thetop part and we're going to edit thatlater on. So going back to the mainworkflow after you created the subworkflow you can simply choose thatfrom the listand essentially it's going to call thesub workflow whenever this workflow istriggered right after it logs the imageURL into the sheet.Now what you want to do here is to go tothe sub workflow. In this case we'regoing to replace a trigger nodeto a execute subworkflow trigger. And asyou can see it says here when executedby another workflow. So we want tochoose that one.So there are a couple things that youcan configure when it comes to how youwant the information from the mainworkflow to be transferred to the subworkflow.Now, in this case, we're just going tochoose accept all data for now, just toshow you the distinction of what happenswhen you configure the data.All right.So, I'm going to take this I'm going toand I'm not going to plug it into therest of the workflow just yet because Ijust want to show you what kind of datawould be populated when this workflow isexecuted.So, let's try to run this workflow andsee what we get.All right. So the execute workflow hasrun successfully.And one thing about the sub workflowtrigger is that when a workflow istriggered by another workflow, you don'tactually need to publish it here. And asyou can see, it says that the executeworkflow trigger does not requireactivation as it is triggered by anotherworkflow.So cool. So we're going to hitexecutions here.to see the logs of the execution.As you can see, I've executed the mainworkflow and it's receiving data here inthein the trigger workflow. I'm going tohit copy to editor so that I can seewhat kind of data has been populated forthis node.All right. So, I'm just going to blowthis up slightly so that you can see. Sowhat I've done is I picked acceptab alldata as the input data mode andessentially the data that's been pushedforward is the image URL and the date.So these are the two data points that'scoming off here. And that's in partbecause the data point that we'vereceived from the previous Google sheetnode in the output payload. We're onlysaying two components that are beingpushed outwhich is the image URL and the date andit's simply passing those to the otherworkflow.So if you want more information to bepassed into the next workflow, well thenyou're going to have to configure thenote to make sure that it's passing onthe relevant information that you wantto the other workflow.Now going back to the other workflow,I'm going to just push this back alittle bit. And in this instance, wewant to choose define using fields belowjust to see what the difference isbetween accept all data. And when wechoose define using the fields below, wewant to make sure that we define thefields. So for example, in this case, wewant the imageURL as one of the data,right? And let's say we don't reallyneed that and we don't really care aboutit. Okay, so we're only specifying justthe image URL.So let's go back to the main workflowand this time we're going to only runthis execute workflow node and see whatit sends across to the subworkflow. Soas you can see, node is executedsuccessfully. Let's go back to thesubworkflow and check the executionlogs.As you can see, there's a new one comingin here.And we're just