the call again. Okay,perfect. We are building on top of this.So if you really think about it, thepossibilities are endless. You can checkanything in the database. You can checkprices. You can check a bunch of thingsthat agents usually don't have knowledgeabout mid call and give answers basedoff of that. So, it updated my emailaddress. I can see that here. And it'salso searching function calling toolsAPI 2025 and 6. Um, this AI is the bestAI 2126.Okay, we don't want all of that. Wedon't have to read it. Oh, by the way,this is exciting enough. Um, so let's goback and refresh the page and uh theymade instead of doing openterapplication, they made another page. Uh,we need to change that. And also 1minute 29 seconds. This is nice. Calllogs. When I open the log, I can see theentire transcript. We can do a bunch ofeven more analysis for the cost andeverything. Right now it it says 9.26 26but it's actually divided by 100 andmaybe it is 9 cents and I can prove umthat by going here and if you go to ourcall logs and the last one is 3 centsfor a 1 minute call it's costing me 3cents because this LLM is the GPT4 miniis charging their 2 cents and Um, thistext to speech is zero for DB because Ihave the API key. You need to go to theAPI keys actually credentials and addyouryou need to go to the credentials andadd your Dgram API key. If I go to mycredentials, you can see my key that'snot uh hidden.Let's go back see what's going on thatthat was able to lead updated. Now letme get exact milis AI function formatfor their docs. So researching milis AIfunction docs create lexa send emailedge function for mid call emails.Update Lexa API to pass tools in agentconfig. Hey add this to today as well.you need to update integration guide soopen floor agents can place the calls aswell.So the idea isI want to keep this as is because if youlook at uh my croy application I builtthe campaign feature as well. So I cancreate campaigns in um that is somethingyou can do too. So if you look at myAlexa phone agent, I can go to campcampaigns. I can open campaigns. I canadd a bunch of people to this and launchthe sequence and it will run this 371calls, 77 calls, and anything that youchoose. So this has all the US and uhUK, Australia phone numbers and this hasIndian phone numbers. We were callingthem based on the time um time zones. Sowe were so these campaigns are going on.Building the campaigns feature is alsoreally easy. I want to make a separatevideo not this video but u it isavailable again in agents in the box ifyou are interested in attending the3hourhackathons that we do every weekendyou're more than welcome to uh now let'sgo back check on the list it has updatedto do and there is a bunch of things todo let's wait maybe it's a good idea tonote that when I asked it to create thewhole thing. It is using my make.com MCTserver and also Google by default. Soit's trying to set up with my Google alot. So I noticed it and I reminded canyou use agent mail for this? you havethe API key for agent mail and I forgotit was uh set in um a machine uhenvironmentthis cloud good unfortunately doesn'thave access to that so I copied and uhpasted the API key in the env.lo filethat we have and it's um settingum I'm referring to env.lo local in thefolder that you have access to.So, I should have said Asian CommandHub. Local is what it needs to search,but it's compacting conversation.Hey, money, this is Lexa from AsiaCommandhub. I wanted to personally reachout because I saw you have been checkingus out. I have got some really excitingthings to share with you about how wecan supercharge your workflow at GrowthCreators AI. That meant>> Okay. Yeah, go ahead.>> At Agent Commandhub, we offer the proplan for just $49 a month. This includesunlimited AI agents that work around theclock, 10,000 automation runs per month,and Alexa AI phone, which is the verytechnology I'm eating to speak with youright now. You also have access to areal time I'm sold. Uh, send me anemail.>> My choice. I'll send you an email withall the details.>> But this is nice, don't you think? So,so one final test to do is go toourintegration guide and it must have beenupdated. Copy the entire guide and uhmaybe just confirm with the agent. Openlaw agents use this. Can I share theguide? Perfect. Let's try.Hey B, I want you to call moneyfrom the lead list that you have usingAlexa phone agent. Uh these are thedetails.Refer integration guide. So I don't knowabout how you know it could open lawwith minimal instruction perform justsays hey I'm afraidor something. I'm really excited to seewhat happens.Okay. The number is in connect. It's m im o n yand you have the phone number and therealeads table. call objective is trying tosell Asian Command Hub at $49 a month.Uh you need to qualify.This is good. Uh it's not blindlyjumping in and I can see amazingapplications for this. As soon as a leadcomes in, you can create speed to leadand uh when you set up an inbound agent,when someone calls, open flock and talkto them and route them to you because ithas human transfer capabilities.And I can think of 10 differentapplications. Maybe I will do AI agentphone or white label AI agency software.White label voice AI software and whatnnot. I can think of bunch of ideas.We have a till next API configured. Youhave all the infrastructure.Can you check the integration guide ifit has or not? If not, I will ask thebuilder agent to build it for us.So, open flaw says it doesn't have afrom phone number. That's why I did nottake this at face value because the 10xAPI key is in env.lo.So, it's time for telephone.I come here and ask whatever reset. I amgoing to give it to you because this isthe infrastructure right any call andevery call that you're getting in youragency every meeting that you're gettingevery single dayAI will have a look at that AI willreview that give you insights give youstrategies on how to close the deals howto show up how to you know it isimproving ever improving ever evolvingFor the first time, it can seeeverything, all the data there is. AndI'm so excited building all thesesystems. Imagine I had 1,7close to 1,700 beatings just sittingthere. Now, all of them live in mysuperbase. I can look at all thediscovery calls, all the sales calls,more than 230 calls. My AI can reviewall of that and give me amazing insightsthat I can use in my paid ad campaignsor cold email campaigns or makingYouTube videos or around all theobjections. How amazing is that? Howvaluable is that for other businessowners? Andfor the first time you have thiscentralized brain like an operatingsystem like aAI employee.So the guide is ready to shareintegrational guide. Maybe I should gohererefreshguide. copy entire guide and go back toopen law and um we made the changesand we paste it and now I hope okay whatis that okay maybeum I can am I looking at not so 1878 9so maybedo I have outdated info for some reason.Let's see. Why is mine?>> Hey, money. This is Ray calling realquick about agent command hub, alightweight system for managing AIagents and their work in one place.>> Okay,>> I catch you at a bad time.>> No, not really.>> Great. Agent Command Hub is designed tohelp operators like you manage AIagents, tasks, reports, and execution.>> Okay. would waste any more time but thisis amazing and this is only beginning.You can create inbound calls, outboundcalls, you can create your own voiceagency, add billing and let people useyour API keys, use your system and youset limits for every minute they speak,every second if you want to but that'sextreme. You you know that right? thesewide label solutions. Some of themcharge 5,000 a year just to give youthat service and that is like instantste savings if you use a builder agentthan open floor. You can make that forpennies. So that's what my next video isgoing to be. So if you don't want tomiss that, make sure you subscribe. Sopro move six, final one in the section.You just saw Alexa make and receive realphone calls. But here's another waypeople are using voice AI that you mightnot have thought of. Multiple people inthe community are having their agentsend them a voice briefing everymorning. So one guy uses 11 Labs. Hisagent compiles his taskboard calendarweather. Okay. relevant news. Keyreminders, converts it to 3 to 5 minuteaudio file and sends him uh while he'smaking his morning coffee, right?Another one gets a voice message everynight recapping what's done on that day.Is it necessary? No. Text is enough.Does it cost $22 a month for 11 laps?Yes. But his exact words were, "I likeit too much to stop." And you alreadyhave the voice infrastructure. And fromwhat we just built, Deepgram Gram isactually free for few thousand minutes.So this 10-minute extension if you justset it up once, you can um you can dothat fora really long time. If you are justusing for transcription and sendingvoice notes and this is some of thepeople who are using voice for this andalsoum some of the use cases again peopleare giving use case after use case butonly some of them are useful. So take itwith a grain of salt and uh only use itthe way you um use anything right. Ifvoice agent makes more sense for speedto lead do that morning briefingsdoesn't add too much value. I personallydon't do voice briefings. it's justthere and I want to show you and maybeyou will be one of the first few peoplewho are using going to use voice AI andreach out to people and uh we are stillgoing on uh once we have goodappointment numbers we will share thatone quick unlock for business ownersagency owners whoever you are to usethis as an outbound agent for inboundagent you just share the phone numberand people start using this and once thecall is done, you will receive end ofthe call report, right? Just like howyou are seeing here. We have an inboundweb hook URL. So these agents know whois calling. If they are on your leadlist, they will be addressed by the nameand you will receive a detailed reporton why they called uh the reason thewhat the outcome is and everything.Okay, that's a different story. Butoutbound calling is tricky, right? Youonly need to call people who submitted aform, let's say.So you can build a form feature withinthis and open claw can power it as longas you have your machine on. Right? Sotake a look at this. I want you to add atab another tab to Luxer. we call thatforms and these forms should be premiumand we should be able to explain innatural language and people should beable to create these forms. So for thefirst form as an example we will createthe form builder using AI in secondphase but for the first phase I want youto create type form or similar to typeform we will ask user toleave their contact info in exchange fora lead magnetand um once someone submits this formwe should be able tocall them and so make it deploy that weshould trigger an outbound call. Soessentially what we are building herethe full pipeline is working end to endfrom submission lead upserted auto calltriggered submission updated. So rightnow my cloud code agent which is also anagent is doing it. It's just a matter ofyou prompting. Okay, I don't want you todo it. I want someone or agent of mychoosing do it for me, not you. And umwhere is this deployed? How can I testthe local host? So I can actually clickon this preview and it will work. Butthe screen is all minimal and half of itis gone. So I'm asking it for umdev server.So local host AD80.We can go here80.Yeah, it's working. So now I go toobsender Alexa and I still don't see anyforms featuredid create somewhere else. Okay, beforeI even ask it says you know it ismerging and committed changes. So nowthat once that it permitswe should be able to see formsandI asked it to create a tab within Alexa.So maybe it completely ignored what weasked. Again it's at the end of the daywe just need the forms feature.We have the forms feature. New leadmagnet form. It is not letting meand I'm sure you're not able tounable to see the message. Uh it saysunauthorized and nothing else. So I goto cloud code and saywhen I try and create the form it saysunauthorized.And if you look at it, it already fixedit one total form. And even if youcreate new lead form, it says internalforms are because we asked it to that wewould do it in next phase. So you canbasically build a wizard and all ofthat. Um but let's go see this form howthis looks.This is like really tyform vibes fromthis. Tyform charges $100a month for these responses and this isreally clean.Money kisanimoney atgrowthcreators.aiA IM A N I at K + 1 7782880303AI growth partnersthis is amazing. You are you know did ittrigger a call is the bigger question.So it did not call actually. Uhapparentlythe app form needs to submit to thepublic endpointand only then it would work I believe.So next prompt I have here is uh beingable being able to use this. So, OpenFlow willbe responsible for taking all thesecalls and also you need to deploy thisto an actual website first instead oflocal host to get the public link thatyou can share.Um, but the call was placed uh, hey,this is Alexa from Asian Command Hub. Isaw you grabbed the AIagent blueprint. Awesome choice. So Iwanted to personally welcome you and seeif you have any questions. Now I have aquestion of course. What would you liketo know? Okay. So we can we improve thisfurther. Yes, of course. Uh we canactually I asked it to create a linkthat because I'm not able to access it,right? So when I go to the forms featureI will be able to you know copy the linkand right now when I copy the link andgo to that link I get something likethis which needs authentication. I don'tknow what's going on here but uh we geta superbaselink instead of actual actual slug. SoI'll create a public form page componentand add a route uh that's accessiblewithout O is what it's doing and oncethat is done uh we can use it we can thedo the same thing that cloud code isdoing here but make open cloud and thatis probably much better because open lawhas your memory has you know daily logsright now without proper memory setupcloud code is not the way to go. I wouldpick open claw for this any day. And tomake that happen, you just need to runthis prompt that I was uh that I hadopen here. And I want you to create thisprompt. You know how they actually isgoing to handle it or it should beagreed.It should be any agent that can handleit just the way we using auto dispatchor phone call feature. an AI agent canown the outbound. So do that. What doesa joy need to have? So this is um thisneeds to be updated in the integrationguide right now since is um right now wearestill updating it to okay this isamazing. We have so whatever website youchoose it will be like this are phone AIemployee Alexa and so far we looked atthe meeting intelligence agent the phonecall agentthe next is the email agent the email AIemployee to build that employee we cango back to our page page and Nova is anemail agent with campaigns, templates,analytics, and auto replies. So before Ishow Nova, I want to show what we'vealready built for Nova. So if we openthis is all about hyperpersonalizationand you can see all theanalytics metrics recent activityengagement funnel which is how many sentdelivered opened and actually clickedand how many bounced also what the peakhours are which days of the week we getmore. We need to change this is notaccurate I believe. So these are topperformers people who open twice orclick twice and uh we are using theirfirst name in the subject line anddifferent we try different subject linesyou can teach skills on how to writethese emails and um you can use eithercloud code agent which is open 4 whichis great for writing these campaigns arecoming up with these guidelines copy andeverything and the open claw the criberthe manager of campaigns making sureokay this is working this is not uh Ineed to create this next that next andeverything and while I was doing this umbuilding thisI always wanted to create an AISDso I created JSON which is like a coldemail campaign where you can selectwhich uh name what level ofcustomization that you have and you caneven scrape leads is my intention when Iwas building JSON but we can do the samething with Nova as well and what we arebuilding. So essentially what I amgetting at is not just build an agentthat is able to do hyperpersonalizedcampaigns. Yes, we will have that. But Iwant to go one level further and createan AI SDL. So when you explain that thisis what I'm looking for. Okay, I wantyou to target law firms in United Statesor in Texas that has 5 to 10 or 5 to 50team size. And I want you to createminimal customization or mediumcustomization, maximum customizationwith lead magnets. Create a campaign forall of that. So right now we need tomake some decisions.Noa is using our resend AI. So recentAI, you can even use agent mail. It'scompletely fine. We are using recentbecause I've always been using that forfor my even vibe coding applicationsthat I started year ago I was usingrecent and you can personalize a lot andyou can get events of what it happenedwhether that they complained theyclicked they opened they you know markedas spam or did they bounce and is itdelivered you You know, you can do magiclinks, trigger links, a lot ofcustomization. This is truly an emailplatform for developersand it's really helpful if you