typical Python script orlike an nadn or make.com or zapier orgum loop or lindy automation that justbreaks at the first hiccup. And this isalso really important in what's calledself-annealing which I'm going to covera little bit more of later. But it'sessentially the way that an agenticworkflow can run and then also just healitself as it encounters errors and soon. Finally, we have what is called theorchestration or coordination layer. Theway that I think of it as if you justget all of these steps, right? Soplanning, tool use, memory, thenreflection. Okay, orchestration doesn'texist within the loop. It sort of existsoutside of it or maybe inside of it. Andthen it's just responsible for shuttlingthe information around from step tostep. And that's really cool, right? Itlooks at the results of the plan. Itthen feeds that into the right tools. Itthen enters what it needs to enter inmemory. and then it looks at the resultsof the reflection and then changes thenext loop of the planning and so on andso on and so forth infinitely. I thinkof it as like the brain that combinesall the components that we just talkedabout similar to how your brain combinesinputs from like your ears and your eyesand your nose and your skin and yourmouth and your memory and it just likefactors everything in and then this iswhat thinks and then ultimately comes upwith decisions. Now there are a coupleof different approaches uh right now fororchestration. uh there's an approachwith crew AI right now that usesrole-based team structures and so youknow up at the top you have some sort ofmanager and then underneath you maybehave like a a marketer and then you havelike a software engineer and you knowthe manager exists above the marketerand the software engineer and themarketer has like you know some internsand so on and so forth the softwareengineer has some juniors this is oneway of doing it um and it's a way thatyou know crew AAI has done reasonablywell with like the sort of frameworkrole-based team structure I think It'skind of like an organization and I thinkthat's just looking at things like ahuman being would. I think they'reactually just much more efficient waysto organize. So I don't personally dothis with the directive orchestration umexecution framework and then cloudskills. Instead, what we do is webasically give AI access to um bothhighle instructions and then tools tohave it execute. And then this AI overhere, this is sort of like thatorchestrator that we were talking aboutbefore. It just looks the high levelinstructions, looks at the tools,matches up the two, does stuff, storesthings into a memory, and then it justloops over and over and over in thatPTML loop. Claude skills is kind ofsimilar. It just um organizes theinstructions. If we visualize this foryou guys, it basically just storesthings into a folder. This foldercontains both the highle instructionsand the specific tool use and anyadditional resources. And then the modelnow just accesses a folder instead ofaccessing you know two differentfolders. And really the point I'm tryingto make is no framework is perfect yet.I imagine the real best framework in thefuture is just going to be a combinationof all these. You know taking the bestparts and leaving the crappiest parts.Um but they are all improving rapidly asthe space gets m more and more mature.So my recommendation is we're not goingfor perfection here. We just want whatworks. And in my case um I use doughbecause you know I came up with it andthen it's a big part of all the contentthat I'm producing now. So I mean thisworks reasonably well right now. Sure,maybe there's another framework outthere that'll get us from 97% accuracyto 98.5. I'll worry about that frameworkwhen it's here. For now, I'm going to dowhat I can with the 97. Okay, we're nowtalking text. This is the universalinterface. When I want to talk to mymodel, I do so through text, right? WhenI want to talk to my model and I don'tknow, I try and give it a call orsomething like you can do on claw onchatbt and stuff like that. What'sreally occurring is I'm transcribingmost of that into text. Now agents ifyou think about it are actually a stepback in terms of our interfaces for now.Back in the day and when I say back inthe day I mean like you know very veryrecently um most people use these dragand drop no code tools right and theseare actually really pretty and they'revery easily interpretable and you cansee how the data flows and so now webasically said no screw that we justwant a bunch of words on a screen rightwhich obviously has a bunch of issues interms of presentation our ability tovisualize them and understand them.Right now we are taking a step back interms of the interface. It's sort oflike back in like the 70s, 80s and 90swhen most people coded and then builtthings on computers through DOSs orLinux terminals, right? It was like textin you get results out. That's it.Everything is just like some sort ofterminal or prompt. And in this way, Ithink it can be really intimidating forpeople because they just see a bunch oftext and they're like, "Oh, I'm not aprogrammer. Oh, I'm not like a, youknow, I don't learn through reading andwriting. I learn through seeing." And Ithink that's fair and it's a totallyokay criticism to make with these thingsright now. I imagine future systems aregoing to go back to a visual interface.It's just we don't have them yet. And asI mentioned earlier, my whole goal isjust make do with what we can at themoment. I imagine over the course of thenext couple years, somebody's going tobuild the most amazing visual interfaceprobably in conjunction with one ofthese agents or agent agentic workflowbuilders and then we'll have somethingthat combines the best of both worlds,natural language and visualization. Butright now we use some tools. And thosetools as of the time of this recordingare cursor, VS code, and anti-gravity.And that's where most agent interactionhappens today. That is the textheavyinterface that you guys saw earlier aspart of the demo where I just talk tothe model through a chat box and see itupdate files and stuff like that. On thelefth hand side, I have somerecommendations to make things feel alittle bit more natural. I personallyuse speech to text tools like um WhisperFlow and Aqua. These are really simple,straightforward transcription tools.They allow you to feel like you'retalking to an employee more than you arenecessarily writing text or typing atyour computer. I'm going to show youguys a bunch of practical examples of meusing this. But for now, let me give youguys a demo. On the left hand side here,I'm just talking to my model. Ibasically converted a workspace from thedirective orchestration executionframework to the cloud skill framework.And you guys are going to see both ofthose later. But for now, I just want toask it how things are going and youknow, if you can tell me something aboutit. So, I'm just going to hold down akey on my computer. Fn. Hey, can youtell me a little bit about the changesthat we just made? I let go and then Ipress enter and now I'm basicallytalking to my model. Of course, I stillhave to press the enter key. Futureiterations of this will probably changethat, but in this way, I'm maximizingthe bandwidth. Human beings can speak alot faster than they can type, but theycan also read a lot faster than they canlisten. So, this is typically how youoptimize both of those. All right, sowhat I have here are five cloud codeinstances. I'm running the latest modelof Opus, Opus 4.5, at least as of thetime of this recording. You guys mayhave some later versions, but just toshow you as the variability of modeloutputs, I've set all these to planmode. And what plan mode essentiallymeans to make a long story short is theyjust don't they can't take actionswithout my express or explicit approval.They write a plan for me first, then Iverify the plan. And so, just to showyou guys how different um various formsof these plans are, I'm going to open upfive tabs. I'm then going to um open upthe reasoning and kind of thinkingpanels here. Then we're just going toevaluate how different all of theseanswers are to the same simple question.What are some ways to send automatedproposals? So I sent that to all five.And you'll see that as we proceedthrough here, there are a variety ofdifferent routes that these modelsfollow. After this does its research andand plans, you end up with five answers.And you'll notice that um all five ofthese answers are different, meaningthat there is no like proceduralsimple step-by-step result here. themodels are doing different things everysingle time. This first one here says,"What type of proposal?" So, it's askingme some questions. The second one hereactually just went through and thenwrote me a big list of different optionsI could take. This third one here wroteme sort of a combination, ask me somequestions. And then it's giving me somecommon automation triggers alongsidesome more questions. This one here givesme these four options. And then this onehere gives me like a little table. Andthis is okay. I mean, obviously I'marriving at like the same sort of answerregardless, but I want you guys to knowthat like the way that businesses workis, you know, when somebody doessomething like they fill out a form orthey require an invoice sent orsomething of that nature. This level ofvariability in and of itself is way toomuch. There's no way that we couldreally like meaningfully add value to abusiness, whether it's our own businessor some other business with variabilitylike this, with like 30 40 50% variancein answers. What we need is when wegenerate an invoice, the invoice needsto be basically the same every time.When we generate a receipt, the receiptneeds to be the same every time. When wesend an email, maybe an onboarding thingor whatever, these should be the sameevery time. When a new form comes intoour system and we need to qualify them,we should use the exact samequalification framework every time. Anyserious company at scale that has thislevel of variability in their processeswon't be a serious company for long.which is why raw large language modelsare very difficult to use in u bothmid-market and enterprise styleapplications. Now the reason for this isbecause LLMs are probabilistic notdeterministic. I touched on this earlieron in the course but let me run youthrough how a large language modelactually works under the hood. So awhile back I actually built a largelanguage model. Well I guess kind of asmall language model. this guy AndreCararpathy, he um built this big uh likeGitHub repo showing people how to liketrain their own textbased mini GPT. Iwent through this whole thing and then Ibuilt my own mini GPT and it was reallyinstructive and I've since learned a lotmore about large language models andsort of what's going on under the hood.So let me just give you guys a verybrief demonstration. If you guysunderstand this, you guys will go a lotfurther towards getting how these agentsare working under the hood. What largelanguage models are are they arebasically machines and they are machinesthat operate off of a distribution ofoutcomes. What I mean by this is theyare statistics sort of pattern matchers.What a lot of people think is that largelanguage models will predict the singlebest next word but they don't do that.Instead they predict a statisticaldistribution of options that they couldpick from. What I mean is if I say hi,how are and then I have a little spaceand if you feed this into a model, whatyou may think you're going to get isyou're going to get the most likely nexttoken, right? Which is sort of likeuniverse A. You think you'll just getthe word you and then maybe a questionmark. But what you actually get is youget a whole graphof different outcomes and possible wordsthat you could choose from. This onemight be you. This one might bethe word things, right? How are things?This one here might be your, forinstance. And what happens is we usethis concept of temperature and top P tobasically randomize the process ofchoosing the next token. And so while Umay statistically be the most likelynext token, maybe U has like a 98%confidence score or something, despitethe fact that U is the most likely nexttoken, we're not always going to pickyou. What we're going to do is we'regoing to have some cutoff, which is sortof like this um top P. And then we'regoing to pick from one of these three orfour options. And we're going to do sowith a level of what's calledstochasticity or randomness. That meansthat you can't actually predict what thelarge language model is going to doevery time. Now, this isn't a bad thing.This is actually a good thing becausethink about it. If we could predict whatevery large language model was going todo, there would be no reason to have alarge language model. If you justtrained things and always outputed theexact same thing every time, there wouldbe no way for the model to reasonflexibly about things. It wouldessentially just be a giant series ofdominoes that just, you know, knock overone to the other. Those are some reallycrappy looking dominoes to the other tothe other. And then, you know, we'd beable to predict everything that's goingon. Anyway, models um randomness andstochasticity is actually a big chunk ofhow they are capable of solving problemsand reasoning for us. But what I'mtrying to say is there's a level ofrandomness added to every step of theprocess. Right? So the first thing isthey predict a distribution of options.What that means is there is somerandomness. There is some statistical uherror here or or inaccuracy. Next, wecan set the temperature and top P. Theseare settings that you'll find inparameters for most large languagemodels nowadays. Those settings alsointroduce some randomness to theprocess. You now have um architectureslike the mixture of experts architecturewhich is basically where they don't justhave one large language model do this.They test this simultaneously acrossfour or five large language models andthen they pick the most commonly votedtask. Believe it or not this introducessome additional variance. Then even attemperature zero tiny input variationscan produce wildly different outputsbecause of randomness. Obviously thereis um sort of like probabilities here atevery step. Now in math these arebasically called compound probabilities.And I don't mean to make this a maththing, but if you're working with AI,you might as well um learn at least alittle bit of the math underneath itbecause it'll help you understand howall these things work. Essentially,these compound probabilities make itvery unlikely that you'll be able toachieve the exact same outcome everytime on the large language models own.And so what happens is you have theseerror rates that compoundcatastrophically. I'll give you a quickexample. Let's say you have five stepsin a process. You want the largelanguage model to, I don't know, go outinto your email inbox, pick the bestemail, then you want it to summarizethat email, then you want to feed thatsummary into some other model, then youwant that other model to take thatsummary and then combine it with a bunchof other summaries to give you a bigdigest of the day. So if you have fivesteps and each of them are 90%successful, the way that math worksreally is although every individual stepmay be 90% successful, if you math itout and actually multiply out 90%success for step one time 90% successfor step two times 90% success for stepthree times 90% success for step fourtimes 90% success for step five, you endup not with a 90% success rate acrossthe entire process. you end up with a59% success rate across the entireprocess. Essentially what occurs isalthough the first step might be 90%.The second step when multiply makes it081 and then you have 64 or 74 or 63 andso on and so forth until eventually youractual total error rate is significantlyhigher. Your success rate on the otherhand is significantly lower. And so whenyou add more and more steps to thisprocess, you know, if you get to 10,it's 35% success rate. If you're at 20,it's 12% success rate. This applies evenif models are 95% successful at specifictasks. What ends up happening isbasically at every step of the task. Agood way to consider it is the totalrange and outcomes gets bigger andbigger and bigger and bigger. There aresuper successful outcomes, sort of quasysuccessful outcomes. They're notsuccessful outcomes and they're likecatastrophic outcomes, right? And thisrange in business is nowhere near tightenough for most companies to trustsystems like this. Now, because mostbusiness workflows are multi-step andbecause people have typically trieddoing things like this with dumber,simpler models with no frameworks, youknow, most raw LLMs are actually justnot usable in business, aside from copypaste outputs, which is why people tendto do that. Just as an aside, imagine ifyou were a business that made $100,000 amonth and you sent a wrong invoice 5% ofthe time. What sort of impact do youthink you that would have to yourbusiness? Do you think that would have a5% impact to your business? No, thatwould have like a 95% impact on yourbusiness. If I'm one of your clients andyou send me the wrong invoice even oneout of 20 times, I don't think I'm goingto work with you the 21st time. So, theroot cause here is we're askingprobabilistic systems to dodeterministic work. Probabilistic isthat big sort of uninterpretablethought process that cloud that I showedyou guys earlier. Whereas deterministicis what businesses use where you haveone step going into the second stepgoing into the third step going into thefourth step and so on and so on and soon and so forth. This over here is whatbusiness is and the best businesses, youknow, productize and standardizeeverything. And then this over here umoperates in the realm of probabilitieswhich ultimately we can't use. What isthe solution here? Well, it's notnecessarily just making LLM smarter.Although keep in mind, the smarter themodels get typically the less error andvariance they do have. That's great. Butthe actual solution is we don't have towait for model intelligence to get smartin an unspecified amount of time. Wejust build a framework around thosemodels that turns these really ricketyoutputs into something that we couldstill use anyway despite the fact thatthere's variability in the process. Wegive them defined nodes and stepsbetween each important thing that