a sub aent fileright now is again you have the namethen you'll have the description andthen also really important you have thepermissions. So which tools the sub aentcan access tools in our do framework forinstance are going to be directives andexecutions. After that, you have thesystem prompt. And just like we dosystem prompts across the entireworkspace, we also have a sub aentspecific system prompts. Um, you guysdon't actually need to know any of this.I just say make me a sub agent that doesX, Y, and Z. And this sort of stuff isjust baked into um at least the Claudefamily of models as of the time of thisrecording. It'll most certainly be bakedinto other ones as well. So yeah, youdon't need to create these yourself. Youcan just ask the agent to do it. Umhere's an example prompt. literally justcreate a sub agent called document thatgets called after every workflow toupdate to consolidate changes in thedirective and execution scripts. It'llgo through a process of creating thething. I'm going to show you what thatlooks like in practice and yeah, you'redone. Your agent will generate a file,put in the correct folder, and then it'simmediately available. Talk aboutsomething recursive, huh? It's agentscreating agents. I should note thatagents can create the definition of anagent, but an agent can only spawn an asub aent. Sub agents can't spawn moresub agents themselves. And this is likea memory constraint. They don't want subaents to be able to spawn more sub aentsto be able to spawn more sub aentsbecause essentially what you're going todo is you're going to end up with asituation where you know your parentagent spins up two sub aents your subaents spin up two sub aents your two subaents spin up two more sub aents and soon and so on and so on and so forthuntil basically your I don't know CPU isas hot as the surface of the sun not tomention you know some safety andsecurity concerns and stuff like that soum really what happens is we sort oflimit it to if we just cut all thisstuff out these too. And so your parentagent can spin up however many sub aentsit wants, but they all report back tothat parent agent. So what are those twosub aents that I talked about that Ipersonally find genuinely useful?They're not required to be clear. Youcan absolutely use DO and whatever otherframework um it is that you want tobuild with without sub aents. But Ifound that these actually improve theaccuracy and quality of my executionscripts and they are a joy to use asopposed to something that is you knowlaborious and time inensive and so onand so forth. The first is the reviewersub agent. So a main issue with buildingdirective orchestration executions orcloud skills is your orchestrator willwrite a bunch of code. And so if you askit, hey, how's this code looking? It'sgoing to be biased towards thinking thatthat code is correct because it just,you know, probably ran it a bunch oftimes and it sees some correct runs inits history. The unfortunate thing isthat's kind of like asking somebody toread their own essay right after writingit. Um, any experienced writers willknow what you want to do is you want totake a little bit of a break. You wantto like take a deep breath, go sit downsomewhere else, you know, like do notlook or read that essay. Come back to itmaybe an hour or two later because whenyou come back to it an hour or twolater, your mind is no longer pollutedby all the biases and your own flavoringof thought surrounding, you know, howgood that essay is. When you come backto it, you basically come back to itwith fresh eyes and you can tell bydefinition whether or not it is a goodessay or a bad essay, whether it's someof your good best work or maybe somesort of mediocre work. And so reviewersub agents work basically the exact sameway. Instead of the orchestrator whichremembers all its decisions, what we dois we give it to something that canactually see a lot more clearly. Whatoccurs is the reviewer gets loaded withcompletely fresh context which is justthe directives and just the executionsthat we built. We then ask it toevaluate the script purely on itsquality. In short, it acts like a secondpair of eyes. We give it no contextabout what this thing is for. And theidea is it needs to like determine thecontext through the code. Meaning thecode has to be documented. It has to bepretty straightforward to understand andread. Has to be written simply. And thenif you think about it, if it has nocontext whatsoever, it'll be able tolook at it and be like, hm, that seemskind of weird because most other codelike this will probably have some errorhandling, but this one doesn't. I thinkthis should probably build in some errorhandling and then it can providesuggestions back to the main agent whois sort of biased to actually go and andbuild the thing. How do you do this?Well, your main agent just calls subagents automatically when you definethem in the system prompt. So inagents.mmd, after you create any script,use the reviewer sub agent to check forits quality. That's a totally okay thingto write somewhere in your agents.MG umG or system prompt. Um while it won't be100% accurate, aka it's not going to dothis every single time, you know, itwill do this up until the context windowgets polluted enough, which is a prettyreasonable thing uh to do. And I findjust having this probably improves myaccuracy a good 5 10%. In addition, youcan obviously also ask the model to dothings manually. So you could say, "Hey,uh that's great. Call the reviewer subagent, just make sure everything'sokay." Or, "Call our reviewer and ensurethat you know this is fine. Hey, I wantyou to make some edits after you're donemaking those edits. Ping reviewer,double check that it's okay. If it'sokay, then give me the thumbs up. Theseare all just flavors and variants ofthings that you can ask your agent.Obviously, your mileage varies and it'sup to you. The second sub aent that Irecommend building is a document subagent. So, this one updates directivesbased on what the system has learnedover time. You know, after your workflowself anneal for a while inside of yourIDE, sometimes the agent will forget toupdate. That's just because, as Imentioned, it has a ton of context andso it's going to forget some of thethings that you mentioned initially inthe system prompt like, "Hey, I want youto update your thing." So, what thedocument does is it just reviews scriptsand then it updates the directives toreflect their current behavior. A lot ofthe time in practice, what happens isyou'll have some um issues with yourscript and so the agent will go andupdate the script over and over and overand over again. And then the directivewill be untouched despite the fact thatyou spent all this time um updating thescript. And then on a fresh instance ofa new agent, maybe tomorrow or the nextday, you try running the workflow andthen it goes like, "hm, this is weird. Itried running the execution script, butit looks like it wants differentparameters. What's going on here? I Ifollowed the directive." And then, youknow, there's a big debugging step andthen it fixes it. But it takes like, Idon't know, 5 or 10 minutes. Well, justcall your document sub agent and have itjust rectify everything right then andthere instead. What you do is you giveit read access to all files and thenwrite access just to your directives.So, it can read through all of yourexecution scripts, but it can't make anyupdates to that. And then it can updatethe directives to match the executionscripts. This is pretty simple, too.Create a sub aent whose job is reviewingscripts and updating documentation soeverything aligns and just call itwhenever you update a script. Anytimeyou make a change, your main flow willthen call the document sub agent. Justdo some review. The document will reviewthe scripts and summarize the changesautomatically since it's sort of liketrained to do so with its prompt. Now,as I mentioned before, the really coolthing about sub aents is they don't justwork in sequence. Um, they can work inparallel. What I mean by parallel? Well,just like opening new tabs, sub aentslet you run tasks in parallel. Just likeopening three or four instances ofGemini and then asking each to do adifferent thing. You could just runthree or four sub agents within a singlewindow. Now, your parent agent has theability to run multiple agents what'scalled synchronously and then wait forthe results of all of them. And so, asI've talked to you guys many times, youknow, if you have some parent A, thiscan now whip up C, B, and then D, andthen it can combine the results intosome result E, loop that back around,and then just use that result to, youknow, proceed instead of doingeverything sequentially. Because thisthis can take a fair amount of time,right? If every single step here takes,I don't know, 20 minutes, that's 20minutes here, 20 minutes there, 20minutes there. Why not just likeconsolidate them all and then only haveone 20-minut step? Parallelization isprobably one of the freest wins incomputing to be honest because most ofyour CPU cores and GPU cores areliterally just left idle 99% of thetime. This is a good way that you canmake use of them. When you do this, thecontext window will also stay reallysmall. It's usually under a couplethousand tokens in the main thread to dothe thing. And then every sub aent worksindependently without cluttering yourprimary workspace, assuming that youknow you you you give it the rightsystem prompt so that it can do that.Hey, I want you to store intermediateresearch results in, you know,tmp/ressearch instead of polluting my uhparent agents context window. Now,obviously when you give sub agentsautonomy, okay, and keep in mind thatthat autonomy is also given by theparent agent. So, it's like you'remultiplying autonomies just like you'remultiplying probabilities. Obviously,safety becomes pretty important, right?And so, what I recommend is giving eachsub agent different tool access. Youneed to specifically say you can only doX, Y, or Z. So, your guardrails have tobe a lot stronger than let's say theguardrails on, I don't know, some othersort of agent. I'm just going to draw mylittle bowling ball analogy over here,but it is very much one of those things.You do need to have some sort ofguardrail. I think of it like giving myintern, you know, readonly access to myproduction database. Production databasebeing like my live actual database that,you know, people are really using. Idon't know. You know, I've had someissues in the past where people thataren't very skilled come into myorganization and then they startscrewing around with databases theyprobably shouldn't be touching and thenI don't know, they drop my tables andthen all of a sudden everything's allcrappy. So, you know, an SOP that I andI think a lot of other people probablyuse is, hey, you know, if you're new tomy organization, you only get readaccess to things. You can only like lookat it. If you want to make changes, askme. Well, sub agents are very, verysimilar. And this is obviously anarchitectural pattern that we'reborrowing from hierarchicalorganizations. This is called leaseprivilege. It's where you give eachagent only the resources it needs for aspecific job. If you think about thedocument sub aent that I was telling youabout, the document sub agent onlyreally needs to be able to read theexecutions. It doesn't need to be ableto write them. The only thing it needsto be able to write, which is sort oflike the really scary thing is thedirectives. And so in that way, weensure that it's only really ever, hey,information from executions goes intodirectives, not really the other wayaround. I could of course create like ahypers specialized optimized codingagent which has a bunch of context aboutthe best ways to do code. Then maybe Igive that read access to my directivesand write access to my executions orsomething. A couple of other limitationsabout sub agents that I want to talkabout because I think they're reallyshiny and they're fun and everybodylikes being the top of some bigorganization. They add some overhead andthey also add some latency. So spinningup a sub agent and getting some resultsback does take extra time is not instantunfortunately because you are literallyspinning up like a separate entity. Sofor simple tasks, your main agent willalmost always be faster just doing itdirectly. And so like most simple tasks,it'll just do the main thread. I'm notgoing to spin up a sub agent to do myresearch for me. Even though some ofthat is just built into the way thatthese agents now work, uh I'm just goingto be like, hey, you know, look up thisand get me the results. I'm not going tobe like, spin up the research sub agentand then feed that into thedecision-making sub aent and so on andso forth because I think that's justkind of BS. So yeah, I don't really usesub aents for most things. The time costoften isn't worth it. I'll only reallyuse it in the context of like a hyperspspecific framework like directiveorchestration execution like cloudskills and so on and so forth. So let meshow you how to actually create one ofthese sub aents. I'm using sub aents incloud code just because cloud code iscurrently like the defined sub aentpattern. So I could just say hey make mea sub aent it'll do it. I want you guysto know that you can build sub aents orat least things that are analogous tosub aents in whatever model uh structureyou want. All a sub aent really isdoesn't have a formal definition yet,but I'm going to define it is somethingthat does not have context aside fromthe input that it is given by a parentagent. So, I want to create a reviewersub agent, right? In order to create areviewer sub aent, I'm just going tolike voice dump my um my requirementsdirectly in. Hi, I'd like to create areviewer sub aent. The whole idea behindthe reviewer sub agent is it will lookat the execution scripts that anotheragent develops and it will look at itwith totally fresh eyes and justdetermine if this is done in aseffectively or efficiently a manner ashumanly possible. It will then provideinstructions to the top level agentwhich can then take that guidance andreview to improve the quality of thebuild.I'm just going to feed all that indirectly. It's then going to do sometinkering and some thinking.Then it's going to ask me a bunch ofquestions. My main goal here is I wantyou to be able to call the sub agent asrequired. So set it up in whatever wayallows you to do the calling.I also want you to check everything. Allof the above. The output format shouldjust be whatever is most amendable orconvenient for you since you are goingto be the one that is calling it. Okay.Funnily enough, I ran into a limit umearlier when I tried finishing that. So,I went and I added um what's calledadditional credits, which is pretty easyto do essentially in Claude. Anyway,your current session eventually hits acap. I'm using the Claude Max plan, so Ihave a fair amount of usage, but yeah, Ieventually do run into some sort ofissue. Uh and so what I did is I enabledthe extra usage toggle and then I said,"Hey, just use this to pay for any extrausage whenever I do." I set a very lowspending cap because I very rarely runinto sessions. It's my fault for justdoing like 20 demos today. Anyway, umafter that I then had this run on atest. So I said, "Hey, run the revieweron scrape_cross_nicheoutliers.py." So it's now actually running atest. It's saying, "Hey, read thedirective first. Understand thecriteria. Read the script completely.Produce the structure of view outputspecified in the directive. Beruthlessly honest and specific." And sothis thing is only going to have readfunctionality. And it since found me abunch of information that I could use toimprove it. script is functional but asignificant efficiency issues. ExcessiveAPI calls, no rate limiting andpotential quota exhaustion. Here theyare. Wonderful, wonderful, wonderful.This is really cool. An O squared stringmatching for 175 niche terms. Fulltranscript load only 8K characters used.So now we can do basically a fix. I'llsay great, try this on the createproposalflow. I'm doing this because um thecreate proposal flow is pretty solid,but it's also quite simple and Iactually want to see how this would workdoing a review on create proposal. It'snow spinning up base sub agent. Now theway that sub aents work at least incloud code is there's a definedstructure. They live include/comandsinside of the commands is the sub aenttool spec. As you see, we haven'tactually done that. There is no um youknow reviewer sub aent here. That'sbecause the model typically defaultsjust doing this in the directiveorchestration execution framework way byjust like having a directive called heyyou're the agent but we want to do thisin claude format specifically justbecause the probability of this workingis a lot higher on like totally fresh uroles so what I'm going to say isexcellent work before you proceed createan actual claude command for this rightnow you are using a directive to spawnthe sub aent but I instead want you tosearch through theclaw pod folder andsee how it should be done. After you'redone, update the execution script withthe reviewer sub agents thoughts.This is fantastic. It found a bunch ofdiscordant issues that probablysignificantly increased error rate. Nowwe have correct paths. Everything hereis much more on board with uh uh thedirective. And we've even gone as far asactually creating the claude command. Sothis is fantastic. What I will now sayis great test create_proposal.py with the demo sales call transcriptintmp. It found it. Now what it's doingis generating all of the information.This is the same thing that I ran in anearlier demo in case you guys are aware.It's going to use a plausible email.Create the JSON input and then test.Cool. And this actually significantlyimproved the functioning of createproposal. Previously we had to do somesome polling. Now what it does is itwaits for the document to be readybefore returning the link. Um so weactually have this um ready and we'vesignificantly improved the effectivenessof the script as well. It's a welcomesurprise. I wasn't actually expecting toimprove this. Looks like the one issuehere is it just titled this with thecompany name which