that. And we're including thecredentials. If the user clicks on thewebsite and we have cross-ite scripting,which means that we can executeJavaScript on behalf of the user, thenwe will be able to run that API endpointand the user will won't know. This couldbe like a delete account endpoint. Sowhen the user basically gets affected byour cross-ite scripting, we can likedelete their account without them evenknowing, which is obviously prettyserious.So websites want to prevent cross-itescripting. There's a couple ways to dothis. And the first way is to basicallylook at the sources and syncs and thenmake sure that user input is not beingfed into a sync it's not being executed.Let's look at the first sync that I'vejust created here which is the sync withparameters. So this is a very commonsync. It's where a parameter so a searchparameter query parameter is taken fromhere this JS parameter and is then fedinto some kind of execution later downthe line. In this case, I'm using theeval function. The eval function willtake a string and evaluate it asJavaScript.That's obviously pretty good cross-itescripting potential there.And whenever we put this JavaScriptparameter, we can do some like alert.The alert will pop up. Cool. That seemslike a cross-ite scriptingvulnerability. Nice. How do we exploitit? What we would do is we would send alink a link to a a victim and we put ourcross-ite scripting payload here. Forexample, a thing that would like a fetchrequest that will automatically submitan API when the user clicks on it. Thenwhen the user clicks on it, theparameter will be fed into theevaluation and then the JavaScript willbe executed. That's how thisvulnerability will work whenever weattack it. This is called DOM cross-itescripting. So DOM is the stuff that hereand it's different for normal cross-itescripting because it actually runs onthe client instead of on the server.Normally cross-ite scripting is wherelike the server will append [snorts]like a tag onto the server when it'srendering it onto sorry the web pagewhen it's rendering it then it'll belike cross-ite script in there rightinstead of that this is actuallyexecuted in the in the JavaScript here.So it's not anything server related. Itonly runs inside the client. That'sactually very popular nowadays becausemost most websites use client siderendering now. Do stuff like React andVue.js. It's rare that you'll see like aPHP website anymore with server siderendering. So more DOMXS type stuff isactually become more and more popular.But crossite scripting isn't the onlyvulnerability we can find throughJavaScript. There's a couple more ofthem. And for example, there's somethinglike CSRF. CSRF cross request for adream is a vulnerability I coveredbefore. So if you don't know what it isthen please go watch that video. But inshort is it basically just a way tobasically do the same thing as crossitescripting. So run some kind of APIendpoints on the user's behalf.Just it's a little bit different that wedon't actually execute JavaScript to doit but we kind of manipulate someendpoint to do it. Right. Let's take alook at this code here. Right. Read it.Maybe take a second. See if you can spotwhere the vulnerability is. See how canwe let's say there's an API input no APIinput like v1 slash delete maybe likeAPI slash user API/ delete like say saysay say say say say say say say say saysay say say say say say say say say saythis one rightsay this endpoint will allow us todelete an account so this is somethingthat user press when they want to deletetheir account how could we exploit it sothat we we can type in this ID and it'llinstead go to this endpoint here.The way we can actually go and hit thisother API endpoint by manipulating thisprompt is by using a path traversal.Basically, a path traversal is where weput these kind of strings here. Oops.where we can put this kind of symbolhere and whenever we have like somethinglike another path like vapi1it'll actually go it'll actuallynormalize the path and go back to theprevious one. So patch is just a way ofbasically going backward paths. Andthere's another one like this which juststays in the same one. It's kind ofuseless to [snorts] us anyway. The mostimportant one is this which will go backa path. And then after that we can putanother endpoint like this. And once itnormalizes the path we'll be oops we'llbe at a different endpoint.And this is normally attacked from theserver and it has been for a good coupleof years. Let's say a server wasfetching a file from some kind ofdirectory and what it was using it wasusing like the name of the file. So it'slike file name here, file name here. Ifwe could control that file name, what wecould do is you could go back thedirectory. So we could set the file nameto something like dot dot slash do slashand then we would go back to the rootdirectory and read files from there.Usually we would read like etc/.We can kind of do the same thing fromthe client side using client sideJavaScript. And this is called clientside path reversal. I made a video on aswell. It's a pretty cool one. But thisis we'll have a look on the JavaScriptcode. Now I can't actually exploit thisvulnerability in my browser because I'mrunning this from a file and this isprotected by cores and stuff like that.And if it's not HTTP, it'll kind ofbreak a little bit. But I can just showyou here. I go to fetch URL. I inputdo/deletelike so. And I press okay. You can seeit'll disallow reading the resourceendpoint at at the exact end point thatwe wanted to. So this was on a realwebsite then we could execute thisclient side patch reversal and when theuser clicks on it thenthat would basically happen. It'sunlikely this would be like a prompteven though this is not used but this isactually not exploitable anyway becausewe'd have to get the user to type thisin which is unlikely. What it wouldusually be is like for example it'lltake like window.loation locationand then it will get like the last one,right? So it'll say like path name andthen it'll get like the last path namebasically cuz in the stringwhat it will usually be is like when youhave like an ID parameter it'll havelike 1 2 3 4 5 it'll take that and thenput it into a different API endpointjust the last parameter. And what we cando is you can put the dot dot slash herejust in a URL encoded way instead. Solike this and then this when this willbe decoded hopefully by the server hereit'll be placed into the string and thenit'll it'll make the path reversal.That's how you can exploit somethinglike client side path reversaland we can get a CSR type vulnerability.So something else to look out forwhenever you're actually reading yourJavaScript and this is just another kindof sync. The sync in this case is thetemplate literal. One of the otherattack vectors to keep in mind whenlooking at client side path reversals isactually cross origin redirects with anopen redirect inside an API. Just toexplain that a little bit clearer, ifyou have a fetch request coming fromlet's say www.agample.com,right? And it's an API sitting atapi.agample.com,right? That's where most of the useractions will be performed. And the wwwdomain is just like the UI mainly,right?When the www domain makes a fetchrequest to the API domain, it'll usuallyinclude an authorization header. Let'ssay that's how the website authorauthorizes you. It's with theauthorization header and they have likean API token in there, right? That'slike the way that you're going to beable to access your API. One of thethings you can do is if the APIuh subdomain has an open redirect in itif the user can be manipulated with aclient side patch reversal. So if youhave a client side path reversal on thatfetch request from www to the API andthen you also find an open redirect youmight be able to leak this authorizationheader and then basicallyget the user's API token which isbasically the the maximal possibleimpact you can have from a client sidevulnerability that's basically just likecomplete account takeover right theideal scenario is like oneclick accounttakeover right the user clicks like yourlink with a client a patch reversal andthen they get redirected to this APIsubdomain and then the API subdomain hasan open redirect to a differentsubdomain that you control which then wecan leak the authorization header andone thing to keep in mind is that somebrowsers will actually block this. Insome browsers the authorization headerwill not bewill not carry over in cross originredirect. Remember, an origin isbasically the subdomain. So, it's it'sactually even different from just anormal domain, right? So,www.agample.comis a different origin fromapi.agample.com. So, just keep that onein mind as well. And you can see likethe biggest one I think that does thisis Firefox and Safari are the two biggerones that block this behavior. Although,for some reason, this is still allowedin Chrome apparently. I actually didn'tknow that. Apparently, it doesn't evensupport that at all, which isinteresting. I actually thought theydid. Maybe I'll have to re read aboutthat as well. Either way, thisauthorization header does add a littlebit of protection to developers fromclient side patch reversals. But ifChrome doesn't doesn't support this,then I think this is still reportableeven if it doesn't work on Firefox. And[snorts] if the application is usingsome like X authorization header, thenthere's basically no no safety there forany any kind of client side patchreversals. But if you do find a clientside patch reversal, then just keep inmind as well it's worth looking for theCSRF as well. But for maximal impact,leaking the author authorization headeror some kind of API key would beamazing. that in mind if the client sidepatch reversal is going to a differentdomain or even on even on the samedomain and then you find an openredirect there then you can maximizeyour impact by leaking the API token.Next thing that I want to talk about ispost message and this is another thingthat I think is very underrated by mostpeople. A post message is kind ofconfusing, but it's a way fora website, so the main website to talkto an I frame which is inside of theactual website.Remember in my HTML video, I talkedabout iframes. There you go. And it'sactually a way to include or embedanother website inside an alreadyexisting website. Instead of opening anew tab with the website, we can justembed it inside our own website. In thiscase, the iframe is here.Why would we want to do this? It's goodfor stuff like widgets, for example,like notification pop-ups or somethinglike that because instead of loading itonto our own website, we can just createit once and then load it like a load oftimes from different websites. And thatjust saves us a lot of development workfirst of all, and it's also quiteefficient.That's why we might want to use iframesin order to embed stuff into our ownwebsite. But these iframes, they can'tjust talk to each other like normally.Why can't websites just why can't aniframe just like basically be part ofthe website? Well, if someone went ifyou clicked on a malicious website andthey say embedded your bank account ontotheir website, which they can do with aniframe.Since they've done that, the websitewill load with your cookies and stufflike that. If they could just accessyour the website, they could read likeyour personal details off, right? So, weneed to prevent that from happening. Weneed to prevent the attacker websitebeing able to like read your personaldetails from an embedded website. That'swhere the same origin policy comes in,which also applies to iframes.So, you can't read you can't read datafrom inside an iframe unless you're inthe same origin, which means the samelike what's called um like host in here.Basically,unless you meet that requirement, youcan't read stuff from and you can't likesend like requests or anything likethat. You can never read cookiesbasically as well. That's basically therequirements that are set by the sameorder policy and it's to protect yourdetails from being stolen by attackersand it's a very good thing. What if youneed to do it though? Let's say you havea widget. You've loaded it in and youneed to send data to it which is quitenormal. Like say you had a widget and onthe side of website and it said likewelcome and it's like your username.But the widget has to know your usernamebut the username is only known by thewebsite, right? So we need a way to passyour username into the widget. forexample.And the way we do that is usingsomething called post message. It's kindof like HTTP light just for iframes.It's very funny. We can send a messageto the iframe and the iframe can chooseto receive it and then process it andthen it can send a response back to us.Let's see here. When the user clicks abutton like here, this is an alternativeway to write the uh thing about theevent listener just like this. So whenthe user clicks a button, we're going toget an iframe with ID child. Let's goback here. So here's the iframe and it'sjust loading in widget.html.It's going to get that and then it'sgoing to send a message and it's goingto send a little bit of HTML to it,right?And then later on it's going to wait foran event from a message and then it'sjust going to log it into the console.So this here is how we can listen topost messages and this here is how wesend post messages. Let's go to widgetand here I've just written it into thescript just to be a little bit safer andwe have the same thing. It's listeningto a post message.It's putting the notes inside inner HTMLand then it's sending a response back tous. So this is the kind of two-waycommunication, right? Instead of likeactually doing this from the top websitewhich we can't do, we've sent theinformation down to the widget which isthen going to process it and then it'sgoing to do stuff with them. That'sphenomenal.There's a bit of an issue here thoughand there's a few security concerns thatcome with post messages. The anyone canopen an iframe, right? So I can iframethis widget myself if I wanted to and ifthe widget contains some kind ofsensitive data already and I send a postmessage to it. If it just yeets up thesensitive information without checkingif the origin above it is actuallyauthorized to see it, it could leak youruser data.And they've done a a few patches toactually prevent this from happening. Ididn't really explain this little starthing. The star thing is actually is away to specify what origin we will allowthis post message to go to. All of thesepost message things were happening. theywere vulnerabilities were happeningbecause people weren't checking theorigin. So they added this in and thisstar means that any origin is allowedand it's generally it's it's generallyfrowned upon to use this insideproduction unless it's absolutelynecessary to sometimes you have to useit if you have like multiple originsusing it.But what we can do is we can specifydifferent like domains inside here andthis will prevent some kind ofvulnerabilities. The other way we can doit is by checking the actual source ofthe event here. So we can check thismanually by doing like origin and we cancheck him and we can use that source.Source I think is a bit more secure thanorigin. Origin can be kind ofmanipulated a little bit by usingsandbox iframes. So source is generallymore reliable. Another thing is that ifwe can pass data into the post messageand it handles it in securely bytrusting the source that's sending it.Well thenthen we can basicallywe can actually find the sync inside thepost message and then executecrosscripting there as well. So you seethis inner HTML page this inner HTML isanother sync and this will just inject astring straight into the HTML and itwill parse it as if it's HTML.So if you put like a script inside ofit, it will parse it as a script andthen the rest of it will parse aJavaScript allowing us to get a post andwe get a crossite scriptingvulnerability. And this is one of thebigger things actually it's in our HTMLand I think it's quite it's quiteinsecure to use this anyway. So you wantto be make sure that the data that'sbeing passed into this is safe. It'sdefinitely going to be trusted.Sometimes you really need to use thisfor a variety of reasons.So that's what will allow us to send apost message. And the same thing appliesobviously on the on the top leveldomain. It's also able to receive postmessages. Remember that I can also Iframe this domain. So it's not just likea top level domain. I can frame this andthen send a post message to this. Sothis is doing if it's handling thisinsecurity trusting its frame like thischildframe. I can frame this as well ifI want to and then send post messages toit.So you really have to be careful whenyou're actually receiving thesemessages.So in this case, we'll just test outwhat this has going to do. I'm going toclick this post message button. You cansee this was sent with post message,which is what I sent. And then you cansee the actual HTML here, which isreflect on the page. I have this toolcalled post message tracker, which showsme whenever post messages are sent. Andthis is the data that gets sent from thetop level iframe and then the bottomlevel iframe sent data as well. What'scool about this tool as well is that itallows you to see where the postmessages are actually being tracked. Soyou can see this function here is theone inside the iframe. And this one isjust is just this thing here, right? Soit just allows me to see it at a glanceand it allows me to see it withoutbasically just looking through all theall the JavaScript which is nice. So howcan we exploit this? This is insecurebecause it's passing HTML directly. It'snot checking the origin. So this uh thiswidget here isn't verifying the originand it's just directly yielding it intoinner HTML. There's obviously nosensitive data here on this widget, butif there was, then we could execute somekind of cross-ite scripting. So howwould we execute this? Well, the thesimplest way is just to make our ownlittle HTML page here. We'll just createour own little exploit. We'll say HTMLjust define a few things. body and thenwe want to make a script background.So what we want to do is we want to Iframe the widgetgoing here. We