guys VS Code. And one of the reasonsI want to show you guys this is becauseI want to show you that you can open upthe same workspace on multiple differentIDEs. You could actually create aworkspace and then you could run it inanti-gravity, you could run it in VSCode, you could send it to your buddywho operates in cursor. There's so muchthat you could do here. It's fullyinteroperable. The only thing thatreally matters is the agent itself andthen the workspace. You could swap outGemini for GPT 5.2. You could swap thatout for Claude Opus. I mean therethere's just so many different optionshere obviously, but just want to giveyou guys um sort of a view into the factthat all the stuff is interoperable. Itdoesn't actually really matter what youuse. So just pick whatever makes senseto you, what you enjoy. Okay. So VS Codeworks very similarly because the two arevery heavily inspired by each other. Umon the lefth hand side we have the fileeditor. So right now I have theagents.mmd file open. Okay. So if I goover here you can see it's actually inthe root directory. So I'm going to givethat a click. That opens up theinstruction file. Obviously I'm thenfeeding in um you know some very simpleinformation here just saying run myUpwork scraper. It's actually gonethrough generated proposals pushed to aGoogle sheet. Same sort of idea. If Iopen up this Google sheet I haveinformation about specific Upwork jobs.This took a few moments which is why Ididn't do this in real time. Um in mycase I was running a really simpleworkflow. I didn't want to edit aworkflow here. or I actually just wantedto use one. And you'll see that there isa distinction between the building ofthe workflows and then the using of theworkflows. In my case, I'm now using aworkflow, not building it. Um, which iswhy I just had it say, "Hey, let's runthis thing." The color scheme isslightly different. It looks slightlydifferent. I'd say VS Code looks alittle bit older, of course. But themost important thing that I'll show youthat sort of distinguishes VS Code froma lot of things is just how big theirextension library is. They really dosupport a tremendous number ofextensions. If I just type the letter A,you'll see here that there are likehundreds of extensions that it opened.This is the search bar for all of theextensions. I could scroll down thisthing for hours and probably never runout of things. Hell, I could probably dothis for like the next two months orwhatever and then I'd never run out ofextensions. So, that's pretty cool.There's just a ton of different thingsyou could do depending on what you'redoing. There's code formatterers tochange like the colors and stuff likethat. Uh, you can kind of think of thisas like I don't know who here playsvideo games, but it's kind of likeSkyrim mods, Oblivion mods, you know,like you can just modify it to dowhatever the heck you want, which isreally awesome. Okay, you guys have nowseen anti-gravity and VS Code in action.Let's talk a little bit more about theworkspace itself. I've shown you guyshow to operate within a workspace, buthow do you actually set it up? Well,first thing is you have to obviouslycreate a workspace. That's really easy.Anytime you open one of these IDs forthe first time, the first thing it'llsay is, "Hey, you should create aworkspace." So, assuming you've donethat, now you're inside of theworkspace. What we have to do now is wehave to set up the folder structure thatour agent can understand and thennavigate. We also need to give it someinstructions that it knows how westructure the folder and why. And if youthink about what I'm doing with you guysand then what I did with the agent withthe agents.mmd file, I'm basicallygiving it a whole education as to why weare in the do framework, why we're usingthis to begin with. And I find that sortof context is really important. It'slike a training uh session for youragent. Get them up to speed. Have themunderstand the methodology and thephilosophy behind why you're using themin that way. And they'll typically worka lot better than if you just tried toraw dog it. So I think about this thesame as like setting up a desk for anemployee at your organization. They needto know where everything goes. They needto have like the base sort of things setup. They need to have the base foldersand so on and so forth. Then once you'vegiven them that structure, they canobviously excel within it. So I'm goingto cover a lot more about this in the dosection, but uh for now just know that awell organized workspace I wouldconsider essential. So what is theactual project structure? Well, let meshow it to you. We start off with theworkspace itself. And you can name theworkspace whatever you want. Nowunderneath the workspace, you then havetwo major folders. You have directivesover here. Then right over here, youalso have execution.Now, inside of directives, let me showyou guys what that would look like. Youhave a bunch of files. So, you wouldhave, for instance, scrape_leads.md.You might have another one, upworkapplybot.md.These are your highlevel instructionswhere all of the top information goes.you know like hey start the scrapingleads thing by asking the user whatleads they want to scrape right oncethey've supplied those leads uh thedirections to you then ask them whatplatform they want to use just some veryhighle stuff now underneath that as Imentioned we have the executions andthen we have the actual like um Pythonscripts that correspond to thedirectives so over here for instancewe'd have and let me just make thisreally really simple to see we'd havethings like uh appify which is aplatform scraperpy I underneath that we'd have I don'tknow Upworkscraperpy maybe underneath that we have upworkapplier or something like thatpy and what essentially occurs in yourdirectives is you just say somewherewithin it hey step three I want you tocall ampify scraper py it reads that inthe directive and then it just knowswhich execution to call I have somerecommendations here of course um usesubfolders for inputs outputs, prompts,and reference materials. So that is sortof what the directives and theexecutions are. But if you, let's say,have a bunch of files that you feed inroutinely as resources, you canabsolutely add a resources folder. Theonly two folders that I would considerrequired in the DO framework anyway arejust directives and executions. Anddepending on the framework, you know,people have different ideas about this,but you can add in whatever otherfolders you want. You could add aresources folder. A common folder to addis a TMP folder. That just stands fortemporary. So sometimes agents um needto create files temporarily to dothings. They use files like as likescratch pads. Uh my friend Gio yesterdaywas telling me about an experiment thatsomebody did where he had like a chatroom for agents.mmdwhere basically he had multiple agentsrun simultaneously and then add thingsto a chat room. I mean obviously theworld is your oyster here and I'm notgoing to try and force you in a specificway of being, but there are a variety ofother folders that I would probablyinclude as well. I'd include some clearnaming conventions so the agent knowswhat lives where. For instance, if uh mything scrapes leads, I would call itscrape underscore leads. I wouldn't callit like s_l with some naming convention.I mean, these character tokens arecheap, right? Be very descriptive withthe titles of your files. And then ifyou have any documentation like thehighle context and then you know likeyour agentsMD and so on and so forth, make sure toinclude that as well. Talked about thedirectives and execution folders. So I'mgoing to leave that. Um directivesgenerally holds things in markdown.That's important to understand, which isjust a way to, you know, um mark up texta little bit. An execution is typicallyin Python, although that depends. Andthis is just that simple separationbetween what you do and then how you doit. So the directives are what you doand then the execution scripts are howthe thing actually happens. I don't wantto beat a dead horse here. Um the numberone other thing that you guys reallyneed to understand is this idea of anenv file. So when you're working in anysort of programming environment,typically you don't want to store likepasswords and secrets and API keys inthe code itself. you want to store it ina separate area which um programmershave created a convention around calledyour env. That's just sort of like whereyou store all of your API keys, all ofyour credentials and so on and so forth.And the idea is instead of saying, "Hey,use this API key in your directive," youjust say, "Hey, grab all your API keysfrom your env." That way, logically, ifyou ever wanted to share your directiveslater on, you could do so really easy.You would just copy and paste them. AndI'm going to cover how to share and setup cloud-based instances later on. A lotof people ask me why these namingconventions exist, why an env.Some things in technology just are. Youever ask yourself why um JPEG files arecalled JPEG files? Well, it's becausethis is actually like an organization. Iforget what the name of the organizationis. It was like the journal for blahblah blah blah blah blah executivegroup, right? This is just a thing thathas occurred 50 years ago that we alljust must follow now. And if we changethe name, then other people won'tunderstand what they are. So it's justeasier to stick with the name is widelyrecognized by basically everybody. So wejust call these things and that's okay.Likewise there are some conventionsright now between the models themselves.So for instance um I talked about systemprompts things that you inject at thevery top of any model conversation andthere's a b a bunch of different onesright now. Claude.md corresponds toclaude. Gemini.mmd is for gemini.Curser.md is for curser. agents.m MD issort of like a general one that issupposed to be a fallback in case youdon't have this specific one. And youknow what I do? I just throw all ofthese in my main project route so thatwhatever model I use, I have the exactsame sort of thing. So I will copy thesame thing from agents MD to cloud MD toGemini. MD to cursor MD. Thisinteroperability is really really easy.And obviously these names matter. Justbecause somebody said, well, we shouldprobably have some configuration file.Why don't we just call it claude MD? Weuse capitals because that'll stand outand make it like hypersp specific anddifferentiable and then other peoplesort of went on that bandwagon andthat's how it is. If you upload agemini.mmd to claude then claude isn'tgoing to understand what that is.They're not going to automaticallyinsert it. But if you upload a claude.mdto claude it will. If you upload uh youknow agents.mmd or codecs or cursor orwhatever to your various models ofchoice it'll understand what's going on.The really cool thing is you just createthe structure one time and then theagent just works with it for everyproject going forward. Which is one ofthe reasons why I love this. Theinitialization is so easy that I nowdon't even tell people to initialize itthemselves. I just give the agents itemD file to anybody I want to set up andthen I just say hey have your model doit. Then they just go to their agent andthey say hey can you set up my workspaceaccording to this file and then it doesso automatically. How cool. I want youguys to know that as you get better andbetter with IDE, this feeling ofoverwhelm will decrease. But at thebeginning, it is totally normal to feeloverwhelmed with the menus and thepanels and the buttons and all thekeyboard shortcuts. Um, it's just like abeginner pilot looking at cockpitinstrumentation right now. I think Itold you guys that I was taking mypilot's license and it is it is reallyintimidating. This is the exact same waythat I tried to put myself in your guys'shoes when explaining this. I wishsomebody explained pilot instrumentationto me the same way I'm explaining IDinstrumentation to you. But you don'tneed to learn everything at once. Andhopefully it's clear, as long as youunderstand those three things, the fileexplorer on the lefth hand side, theeditor in the middle, and then the agentchat on the right hand side, you'realready 80% of the way there, and youcan build and use Agentic Workflows foryour own business. The goal isn't tomaster every feature here. It's just tobe comfortable enough that the IDdoesn't like slow you down. Okay, so letme show you how you can easily buildproposals and high-quality PDFs andvisual assets with Agentic Workflows.This is an example of a workflow that Iuse all the time in my day-to-daybusiness. So immediately underneath thisI have a sales call transcript.Essentially what we do is we feed inthese sales call transcripts and we justtell the model hey I want you togenerate a proposal with it. So what amI going to do? I will literally just saygenerate a proposal using the belowtranscript. Then I'm going to pressenter. What's going to happen is thismodel is going to immediately startlooking through the existing directiveswhich I'll talk a little bit about morelater in the course. It'll find contactdetails and everything that we need inorder to actually send the proposalbecause I removed the email from thisspecific one. I am going to supply justa demo email. What its reasoning isdoing is it's extracting the mainproblem areas, the main solution areas,the things that we talked about and alsothe pricing. Immediately afterwards,it's going to ask me for the emailaddress. This is a demo, so just useand I'm going to provide my own.And once it has this information, it canproceed and actually go through with thegeneration of the asset. So it's notformatting this in the way that I wantthe proposals to look like. Keep in mindthat I had no real work here aside fromcopying my transcript over. And eventhat is unnecessary. I could have justused it directly from the transcriptprovider Fireflies, but I wanted to showyou guys how malleable this sort ofthing is. Whether you copy and paste itin, whether you put an API call to likesome transcript endpoint in, uh, youknow, it works the same regardless.Great. And it's finished. Now it's goingto do is send a quick follow-up email.And the email was sent successfully justusing an MCP server that I set up. Andnow we get a summary as well as a linkso we can view it directly.When I open this up, you can see theproposal document right here. Itincludes um you know your problem areas.Number one, your revenue isunpredictable because you're relying onreferrals and sporadic outreach. Onemonth may bring three clients, the nextmonth brings zero. The feast or faminecycle makes it impossible to planhiring, delivery capacity, or growthinvestments with any confidence. This isall stuff that the AI came up with. Youknow, I chatted about this briefly onthe transcript, of course, but umeverything else here, the tone of voiceand everything like that was just a verysimple highle prompt instruction as wellas a brief example. The actual workflowhere took me maybe 15 minutes to set upand to end. And as you can see now withjust a prompt, uh I can generatehigh-quality sales proposals withinseconds. So, this is what you are goingto learn how to do. You're going tolearn how to set up workflows, not onlyto do things like generate proposals,although I absolutely recommend you doif you're in any sort of servicebusiness where you have sales calls, butwe can do more or less anything. I'veset up dozens of workflows to automatemany of the mundane routine businesstasks that I have. Things that just afew years ago, people probably wouldhave raised an eyebrow at you andthought you were crazy for suggestingyou can automate something like this.All right, it's now time to talk aboutDO directive orchestration andexecution. So up at the very top ofthis, you can see that I've writtenthree layer software architecture.That's because that's what DO is. It isa three layer system that we're wrappingaround an AI agent in order to helpconstrain its outputs and take it fromlike a probabilistic thing which is allover the place to something verystandard, consistent, and deterministic.So at the very top of this system isyour directive layer. Of course, this isgoing to include workflows and SOPs. Andby the way, if you don't know what SOPmeans, that stands for standardoperating procedure. And standardoperating procedures are very common inany sort of business, which is one ofthe reasons why I like Do so muchbecause all you really do is just importyour standard operating procedures inwhatever business you are working with,whether it's your own or business you'rehelping. Then you just say, "Hey, turnthis into a directive as per do." Andboom, you're done. You now have like anAI agent that just does tasks that yourcompany needs to do. So up at the verytop kind of the first layer is thisdirective. Now underneath you have theorchestration layer. Your orchestrationlayer is your AI agent or AI employee ina way. And you'll also see that like notonly did I put a little robot face here,but I also put a person. And the reasonwhy is because it's actually prettysimilar to how most organizations work.You have some highle directives. Thosedirectives are read by employees or youknow other people in the business. Andthen what they do is they just makedecisions surrounding how to accomplishthe highle uh directives. This is wherethey perform coordination, taskmanagement, and stuff like that. Andwhat they do with those decisions isthey call or use tools. Now, if you'rean AI agent, you're going to be usingmostly software tools as expected. Hell,if you're an employee, for the mostpart, you're going to be using softwaretools. Now, think of the tools that anaverage employee uses in anyorganization. We're using Google Sheets,Excel. We're using Microsoft Word, Docs,right? All of those things are actuallyanalogous to tools that we use within anorganization to accomplish things. It'sthe same thing that our AI does withtools that it creates. Okay. So down atthe very bottom here, you have theexecution layer and this contains tools.It contains Python scripts and so on andso forth. It's primarily responsible foraction and output. I don't want peoplehere to be really scared or worriedabout DO. It's a lot simpler than youmay think. The thing is we just need toframe it as like a three- layer softwarearchitecture in order for the rest ofthe course to make sense. So to beclear,