going to open that up.Now, you see the difference is that it'sonly going to output the data in theformat that you've defined here. So,we've defined the image URL field onlyas strings and it's only going to passthat data property in the outputpayload,which means the date output is notincluded in the payload here. So that isa main difference when you're definingusing the fields below as opposed tojust accept all data. And this isextremely useful when you want to formatthe input in a specific format or in aspecific way in the next node for therest of the workflow.So all right, so let's go back to theeditor. In this case, we're going tochange back to defined using fieldsbelow, but we're going to add in thiscase the date variable as well. I'm justgoing to hit execute step again. Andthere we go. There no inputs data. Sowhat it's doing is it's outputting thesetwo variables with no content inside.Cool. All right. So now when we look atthe architecture, what's going on hereis that the two workflows are activatedwhen a photo is uploaded on GoogleDrive. The user is notified on Telegramthat a photo has been uploaded togetherwith an image of the photo and thatimage is then logged into an image logsheet and then the sub workflow iscalled. So in the sub workflow, thistrigger is the start of the entire chainof workflow here. And what we want to doin now is to chain it up with the videoprompt agent here.Want to do just before we chain it upwith the video prompt agent here is wewant to add a telegram note. And if youremember what we need to do is we wantto get a text input from the userdescribing what they want to do with thevideo. just an idea on how they want togenerate the video because they don'tneed to come up with the entire prompt.We already have a video prompt agent aspart of the workflow. They just need totell us directionally what they want theworkflow to do for the video. So in thiscase, we're going to select the sendmessage and wait for response node.So we're going to make sure that we pickthe right Telegram account. And in thiscase, I'm just literally going to goback to the main workflow. I'm going tocopy the chat ID because it's going tobe the same chat ID that we use.Right? Again, you can make this moredynamic by passing it through theexecute workflow node and passing itinto the sub workflow. But in this case,because it's going to be the same chat,I'm just using I'm just hard coding itinto the fields. So now the previouslythe telegram node will show the photo tothe user and say that you've uploadedthis photo to the Google Drive. Kindlyprovide the video ID that you want togenerate from this image.So, we're we don't need this partanymorebecause this is just going to be anotification message. Instead, we'regoing to have the message sent here in asubwoofer.So, we're going to make this a question,which is could you provide the video IDthat you want to generate from thisimage? Question mark. And we want theresponse type to be free text. Allright.Cool. So I'm going to hit execute stepherejust to see what we get on the telegram.And as you can see the message that wegot from telegram is could you providethe video idea that you want to generatefrom this message. All right. Andthere's a respond tab here which I canclick on.I'm going to open that linkand basically type in my response forthe video generation ideas that I want.So create a video of a cat flyingthrough hoops of rainbowand landingon a field ofsunflowerswith purpleunicornsrunning in the background. All right.So, we're just going to do that and hitsubmit.And cool. All right. So, let's go backto the workflow. And as you can see,receiving, and this is kind of hard tosee, but I'm going to just drag this tothe left a little bit. Um, as you cansee, the input that we're getting iscreate video of a cat flying throughhoops of rainbows and landing on a fieldof sunflowers with purple unicornsrunning in background, which is a textthat we've input into the field there.Cool. All right. Okay, so we've got anoutput data here and what we want to donow is to chain up the output. And letme just blow this up again so that youcan see.So we're going to chain that up with thevideo prompt agent.And now we're going to have to configurethis very quickly and just drag the textfrom the telegram again. Drag this hereto the right. the text which containsthe video ID into the prompt hereand this is going to be the user prompt.Essentially, in terms of system message,it's going to be the same because westill want it to create an effectivevideo prompt to prompt the videogeneration model based on users inputand also to output only the followingtwo values in JSON format which is theprompt that it generates as well as theimage URL that it fetches from theGoogle sheet. So everything else staysthe same in terms of the rest workflow.The only difference is we've now changedthe trigger to this workflow from atelegram onssage trigger into a executedby another workflow trigger.So the rest of the workflow is going torun the same.And what I'm going to do now is I'mgoing to do a top to bottom run of themaster workflow and the sub workflow aswell. So I'm going to hit save here andI'm going to hit execute workflow here.It runs the execute workflow and it'sspinning. The reason for that if we goback to the telegram, it says that I'veuploaded this photo which is correct.And again, it says, could you providethe video ID that that you wantgenerated from this image? All right.So, I'm going to respond here. It'swaiting for my response.And again, I'm going to say create avideo of a catflying.Oops. of rainbowand landing on a bed of sunflowerswith purple unicornsrunning in the background. Okay, I'mgoing to hit submit hereand go back to the workflow.It's not showing anything right now, butif you go to the execution logs, you cansee that it's getting an input. It'sgetting a trigger and it's running theworkflow.So, it might take a little bit becauseit's going through basically the HTTPAPI post call to Cance or Way AI andthen it's going to wait 15 seconds. It'sgoing to do a get API call and then ifthat fails, it's going to run the loopagain and try to get it again. And onceit has the result, it's going to send itto the Telegram chat. All right, sowe're just going to head back toTelegram.As you can see, the video is ready.And I got to say, this one is not asgood as what I expected it to be.probably something to do with the prom,but it's getting the main gist right,which is, you know, the cat is landingonto a bed of sunflowers with unicornsrunning in the background, but the styleis a little bit inconsistent. And ofcourse, that we have to go back to thesystem problem and fix that. But thepoint of this is to show you guys thedifference between how the architecturecould work. Essentially does the samething. But the difference is that youhave now split the one bake workflowinto two separate workflows. And thiswill help you when it comes totroubleshooting and iterating becauseyou can re literally look into debug allthe errors occurring in the mainworkflow or in the sub workflow. So itjust makes your life easier when you'retrying to error handle uh if anythinggoes wrong. I hope that's a pretty clearexplanation on how we can use theexecute subworkflow note as well as theexecuted by another workflow trigger andhow it all works. I'll see you in thenext section. In this section, I'm goingto run you through how to selfhost n onyour local machine through DockerDesktop. So, the easy way to get startedis to go to GitHub and grab the NN-IO/selfhosted AI starter kit. And what youwant to do is just go over thedocumentation a little bit. Anddepending on what kind of machine thatyou're on, I'm currently on a Mac. So,this is the documentation that I want tobe referring to. As you can see, it's asimple git code and you can get started.But just before you go ahead and do thatfrom your terminal, what you want to dois you want to make sure that you haveyour Docker Desktop downloadedinstalled, and if you haven't done thatbefore, what you want to do is to goover to docker.com and basicallydownload the Docker Desktop app intoyour machine. And I already have my setup here. So, just go ahead and downloadthat if you haven't done so. And also,you want to make sure that you have Gitinstalled on your local machine. So,once you've got everything set up, andagain, I'm on Mac machine. So what youwant to do is scroll down here wherewe're going to clone the entire packagetogether with Olama within becausethat's the LLM that's going to run onyour local NN. And if you already haveOlama set up on your machine, there is adocumentation separately for that. Butin this case, what we want to run is thecommand lines right here. And we're justgoing to copy that to our terminal. Andit's basically a git clone. And oncewe've cloned that repo, what we want todo is cd into the self hosted AI starterkit and set up the environment file.Make sure that it in there. There we go.And what we're going to do now is to doa docker compose command. And this timeis the CPU one because this is a maxsilicone. And once you run that, it'sgoing to take some time to run dependingon how quick your internet connectionsare. And as you can see, it'sdownloading a couple of things. Youknow, Postgress, Quadrron, Nadan, and OLama, which are the basic buildingblocks that you need to work withlocally.Now, that took a little while, but nowit's completed. So, what we want to donow is just to go to the local hosthere, 5678, which is the default localhost that you can access your NANDinstance on. So on my browser, I'm goingto go over to localhost 5678. As you cansee, it's going to ask for some emailcredential. Sign up. So you can do anyemail you want because it's allbasically running on your local machine.All right. And once you're signed in,you're going to see that there is a demoworkflow because part of the repo thereis a demo workflow template that's beenloaded up. So you can just open that. Asyou can see, the template loads up witha basic LLM chain with the Lama chatmodel. And for this basic chain to work,you have to plug in a fallback model. Soin this case, I'm just going to addanother lama model here. Choose the samecredential there. Just leave it as that.And basically, we can just say, "Hey,how's it going?" And it's going toaccess the Oama chat model. And again,all of this is basically being poweredon your local machine and is running onthe doc desktop. But I'll show you in alittle bit what that looks like. Buthere you go the notice executedsuccessfully and it's responding withthis output.And on the docker desktop as you can seethere's one container running which is aself-hosted AI starter kit and underthat you can see postgress quadrant andn is running and if you would stop theoperation of a container and you headback to edit end instance you can seethat the connection is lost here. So itis entirely running on your dockercontainer and powered by your localmachine. So going back to our dockerdesktop here I'm going to hit on startand on the left hand bar you see thereare images and these are images that youcan download you know latest versionsyou can see you can search for nanimages and download the latest versionof nan and and basically run that andthen there's the volumes here which iswhere all the persistent data is storedand I'm not going to go into the weedsof how it all works together because wedo have a separate course for docker toaddress that but going back to thecontainer if you will want to do anyconfiguration changes and stuff likethat what you can do is actually open upthe configuration here and actuallyconfigure the doc compose file dependingon the kind of requirements that youneed such as user credential persistentstorage and port configurations. Butthat's it for a super quick one on howto host edit on your local machine withdocker. So in the past section we talkedabout how we can host nitn on our localmachine with docker desktop. And in thissection we're going to go through howyou can run nitn on an ec2 instance withdocker running on top of it. So an easyway to get started is to go tocodcloud.com/playgrounds.So this is where we host all ourplaygrounds including AWS Azure GCP andAzure data. So what we want to do hereis to go to AWS and spin up the AWSsandbox playground by hitting launchnow. And it's just going to take acouple seconds to start up theplayground. And there we go. We've gotour credentials here. What we want to dois just copy this to our browser. Andthat's going to lead us to a sign-inpage on the AWS console. And what wewant to do is to go back to theplayground and copy out the username andthe password. And you can just fill thatin to gain access to the AWS console.And there you go. Got a console ready togo. And what we want to do here is headover to EC2 instance and hit instances.And as you can see, because it's a newsession, there are no instances justyet. So we're going to hit launchinstance. And I'm going to call thisinstance nan-demo.And we're going to choose YUbuntuhere. And we're just going to leaveeverything else as is for now. And whatwe want to choose here is a T2 medium.And again, this is just to cater for thefact that we're going to have lama aspart of the packet that's going to comein. As you recall in the past sectionwhen we did the git repo clone, it'sgoing to be quite sizable. So we justwant to make sure that we're cateringfor that. And of course the storagelater on, we want to configure that tobe quite sizable as well. So with a keypair login, we can create a new keypair. And we're also just going to callthis an demo key. It's an RSA typewithPNformat. So let's create key pair. Andthat's just going to get saved in mydownload folder. And under networksettings, we'll make sure that it isallowing SSH traffic from anywhere forthe time being. And at the same time,under configure storage, we want tochange this to 30 just to ensure thatit's got enough to cater for the packet.Right. And everything looks okay to goright now. So, we're going to launchinstance. And there you go. The instancewas successfully launched. It takes justabout a minute. And as you can see, theinstance has been spun up. And rightbefore we go to our terminal to startsetting things up, what we want to do isjust go into the instance here and makesure that the security group isconfigured. So, there you go. We'regoing to the security tab here and hitthe security groups. And under theinbound rules, we would just want tomake sure that we add the SSH inboundthat's coming from the end port. So thisis custom TCP and it's going to be port5678, which is the default port. Andwe're going to allow it to be able to beaccessed from anywhere. Now, we're goingto save rules. And there we go. That'sbeen added. And going back to ourterminal, we're just going to type inchmod 400 and then dash demo- key, whichwas our p key. So just to make sure thatwe can gain access with the rightpairing key. And we're going to SSH intothe instance by typing in this commandline which includes the PAM key as wellas the Ubuntupublic IP address which we can get fromthe EC2 instance console. and just copythat and go back to the terminal. Pastethat in and we're going to run that. So,this is a typical message that's goingto show up for the first time if we'retrying to SSH into it. So, we're justgoing to hit yes. It's going to justdouble confirm because the key is notknown by any other names. But sincewe're the ones who created the instance,we know that this is safe. So, we'regoing to hit yes. So, the next thing wewant to do is to update the system andinstall Docker.We're going to run install there. Next,we're going to enable Docker as well asadd the user group. Make sure that wecan get access to column Docker. Andwhat we're going to do next is just toinstall Docker Compose version two. Andjust to make sure that it's installedproperly, we're going to run DockerComposeversion command. Sorry. It should beDocker Compose just version without thedash. Oops, there's a typo there. So,should be Docker Composeversion.All right. So, that's version two. Good.We can move on. So, the next few stepsare going to be very similar to what wedid in the last section when we'retrying to self-host on Docker. So, we'regoing to do a g clone of the g repo. Andwe're going to change our directory tothe self hosted AAI starter kit. Okay.And we're going to copy the environmentfile. Let's make sure that that'screated. All right. And just before werun the docker compost command, we'rejust going to do some minor change inthe environment file because sometimesthe security settings might not allowyou to access the destination due tocertain types of security protocols. Andwhat we want to do is in this casebecause we're just trying to show how toset it up is to disable some of that.So, what we want to do here is to justpaste in the line edit and underscoreseccure cookie equals false. And oncethat's done, we're going to exit. We'regoing to hit yes. And there we go. So,I've just cleared that up. And whatwe're going to do here is just run thedocker compose commandand basically to pull in the same way asthe previous section all the nan filesthe packet and everything that'scontained in the git repo into the EC2instance.So it's going to take a little bit oftime as is pulling all of that. So nowthat's done. We want to check if thecontainer is up and running. So, we'regoing to type