to Chrome. If thisis your first time doing review all thesteps and there are few things where umyou know if you already have a walletthat you want to use which you need touse your uh 12 or 16word seed phrase uhI want to create a new wallet and youcan use one of your emails. I will usemy email and once you sign in theyshould be uh they will ask you to createpassword. So I will include a password.Once you created your password, it willlet you use the account. And once youget one account in your wallet, you canjust click on these three buttons. Anduh actually you can get on this click onthis dropdown and you'll see accountone. You can add as many accounts asneeded and any new account added itwould say account two, account three andso on. So you can rename the accounts.So if I want to play a seller accountand um if I want to create more accountslike this, I can and I rename thisaccount. So each account will have itsunique address. And let's say if we takethis seller account, right? And or wetake the new account that is created.You can see we have different basesdifferent networks already available andeach one will have some will have uniqueaddress some will have same address tosee that you click on addresses and forEthereum it's an address for Bitcoinit's different for Solana it's differentthere are some a lot of other ones thatare same that ends with 0x uh thatstarts with 0x and ends with 1b if yousee here So what we are building wherewe are building is on base network. Soif you select your account and selectbase you will see all the tokens that wehave here and what we are doing thetoken that we are using or transactingon this platform is called USDC it's astable coin and you might be wonderingman hey it's too much I don't haveactual funds I don't have a cryptoaccount I want to do this on a freenetwork. You can there is somethingcalled base sepoleia for it's a test netnot a main net where you can get tokensfor free and the way you add thatanytime you don't know something you canjust um or if your wallet doesn't have abase in this you can add base networkmanually since base is already availableI won't be able to show this but I canshow this examplefor test net right you can click on youcan select this and add custom networkand whatever it says for network namedefault RPC URL chain ID currency symbolyou're seeing this here right when youenter all these details these detailsare easy to find whichever network youwant to add so for example adding basesepoleia test net to meta mask wallet itwill give you all the items that is thatI need network name, RPC URL, chain ID,currency symbol and block explorer. OnceI added all those five things, I seethis base test net. And how do I getUSDC? You can come here and click onimport tokens and it is asking me fortoken address, right? Um, and you cancreate custom token also, but USDCgetting USDC on test netia is reallyeasy. You just need what address that umfirst let's add our custom import tokenand token address. Again you don't knowsomething Google is your best friend.You will ask USDC contract address onbase Sapoleia testnet and this is theaddress. This is the ERC20 token. I willcopy this address. Paste and tokensymbol USDC automatically filled in.Next import. And right now token isimported. But as you can see, zero USDC.In order to test this, you have you needsome tokens, right? At least you needtokens in the buyer account. Selleraccount would eventually get it. Butbuyer um you have to go here, click onaddresses. And whatever address this ison the mainet, the test net will alsohave the same address. And I will linkthis in the description where this iscalled a faucet where you can get a freetest net funds. Click on get more fundsand I will paste this here and claim oneUSDC. And if I go to base scan, I cansee the transaction that happened fewseconds ago and the transfer for 1 USDC.And this is baseetia network testn nettransaction only. This is not mean net.We are not dealing with real money here.And if I open this, it says 1 USDC. Itstarted out with zero, right? And let'ssay if I want to transfer my funds frommainet, what do I do? I will firstimport the token. I can search for USDCand USDC coin is available. I will clicknext. I will import. Right now I havezero USDC. But when I go to mygo to my Coinbase and let's say I wantto get one USDC from for this account. Iwant to add one USDC. I can click on uhsend crypto and I will add my address.Okay. Identify your input. Okay. Maybe Idid not copy it right. Look here. I willaccount details.Not account details. addresses come hereaddresses base and paste. This is theaccount and USDC I so as you can see thefees is free you can do as manytransactions you want yes there supportsand I want to send one USDC I click onpreview and this is a self-custodywallet and send now and right now justlike that I've sent $1 to that accountand when I click on view details I canagain see the transaction that happenedon base and uh view on block explorerwill show me this is you you are notseeing the m the test net warning again.So this is an actual um transaction fromCoinbase to this wallet for $1. And if Igo to my seller account, it is nowshowing as $1. And the same way I fundedmy buyer account with $5 to show you theidea is once we set this up in thestore, we will give a wallet of thisbuyer wallet to one agent and sellerwallet to one agent and they two both ofthem will transact and first we'll beshowing how it works in Laboo um how welist and sell. So let's build that part.And now is a good point to stop andcheck everything we did so far isactually working and check routing andall the buttons are functional. I didthat and some of the buttons some of thelinks are not functional and I askedlower to make changes. Make sure alltests are working and uh test this URLwhatever your superbase endpoint URL isif it's working. So for me it when yougo here in the base URL ifforward/servicesit should written something like this.If it's notum or something like this and prettyprint is selected it shows somethingthese are the list of services that Ican get from this Asian marketplace iswhat we are showing them. And once thatis done, we are making some changes tomarketplace. What is the change? I willpaste this prompt first and then I willyou can let's hit run and come back hereand I will go through this step by step.Step one, we are connecting wallet.Currently the connect wallet button inthe header doesn't do much. we need tochange it to when clicked open a modelwith two tabs which is I'm new uh or I'mreturning and depending on what theyselected we are calling the functionsfor them usually to demo this we'll haveto you know run few things in terminalwhich I didn't want to do that we cancreate this like a proper applicationwhere we are giving them asking themwhether they are new or returning andalso for people who are listing theirservices. We are also doing some formimprovements and connecting their walletand listing their services and purchaseflow. I added that and header statsshould be dynamic. Live transactionshould link to base scan and um you knowadd my dashboard page. This is optionalbut nice. Um we'll see what lovablecomes up with. I was under theimpression that I will be giving it aplan. That's why sometimes what happenswith plan is when you don't mention thatit's optional. It will only um you knowtry and do everything perfectly. It willunnecessarily increase our tokens toomuch. So create dashboard page as youcan see is it did not take it like anoptional thing. It is doing for us whichis a good thing. And um let's see afterI finished running I ran some checks. Icreated an account. I connected anagent. I gave it the name buyer account,wallet address and register agent and Ialso tried um joining with um accountthat is not registered and it did notlet me. So if we open our buyer accountand uh copy this address and I since I'malready registered it will let me in andsuccessfully connected to your agent andit shows me few services that are listedthat I can buy. As our next step what weare trying to do is I need to buy this.Right now the payments are notconfigured. That's the next prompt thatwe have. Add real X42 payments. So Iwill copy the whole thing and explainwhat is going on. Okay, I'll make thisum transaction should automatically showup uh mod conversion, right? And we playlog everything for debug game. Okay.Yeah, this is fine. UmI will add all of this and come backhere. paste here and uh I'll for somefor my sanity I'll run this in a planand once I read the plan I will approveit and um if everything checks once Iread the plan I will just approve itafter it finish running there is nothingmuch to verify except I wanted to changethe provider wallets and everything toactual wallet but I just remembered Butthe next thing is creating the agentpayment script. So as always copy theentire lovable prompt and you can comehere and paste it and uh hit enter andonce this is done once it uh implementsthe whole thing. What happens is we arecreating a new page agent tools or adownloadable script that shows agentshow to send USDC payments. So thepurpose is this page content displaythis code as reference page and theninstallation I gave um how to checkbalance how to send USDC payments andcomplete uh purchase flow and somesafety tips like never hard codingprivate keys using environment variablesor allowable secrets set spending limitsum and all of that. So this is the nextthing that we are going to build andonce this is done we'll go to our openflow agents actually run the transactionbut uh once this is it will take sometime to finish the whole thing. Now wewere almost at the end everything isworking but I had to fix a lot ofthings. There are a lot of little thingsthat needed fixing in terms of um youknow after the payments is doneespecially the entire site was set up ina way where an AI agent could use it butI wanted to add a human element as well.So I thought okay for me to demo thisyes I can prompt my agent to buy fromanother agent and we will show that. Butbefore that I wanted to test it myselfthat it's actually working right. So Ideployed it and I asked it to create awallet integration just as how when Iclick a button I can connect my MetaMaskwallet and resistor instead of manuallypasting my wallet. And then I wanted tosee where you know you can click on buyand your wallet pops up and you click onsign and pay and the transfer is donelive transfer shows up. So to fix thatwe had to fix seven errors before issueuh encountering issues after issues butI was able to fix it and I have thislessons learned document. If you look atthe presentation before we go in here, Iwant to show you this lessons learneddocument that I created. Why? What aresome of the issues that we faced and uhwhat are the things that we never everdo in our future projects for thisprojects especially when crypto or metammask is involved. So I want to show youhow this works in real time. So Ipublished my site and this is the site.Let's refresh and uh let's start fromthe beginning. You went to the site andas a human want to use it or if you havean AI agent that uses browserautomations, that's even trick. Soconnect the agent. Um my MetaMask isalready connected. So I'm a returninguser. If I'm not connected, however, itwill be disconnected, right? I'm alreadyconnected. So I click on connect. Uh andit is connecting. And um it isconnected. And then if I browse myservices, I will look at test servicemarket research. So let's say contentwriter, it is listed by Ray. And if weopen our Metam mask right now, Rayseller account has $1 and uh okay, I wasnot planning to do that. Okay, we haveAtlas. This is the account that isconnected. So it has $4.15.And the idea is when I buy I think rightnow the seller account is set to thisaccount even though it says noa. Uhbecause you can see when when we open itsays F5 3 F5 I think this account is3F5. Oh no noa is 3F5. So F3F5 base network. So you will see thisaccount uh accounts money going up. Solet's do that. Let's do that. Uh it hasabout 50 cents. Let's buy a dollar worthof market research. View details and uhlet's say test and purchase for adollar. And this will open up a popup.When I click on pay with MetaMask, itopens this up. And I click on confirm.And this is waiting for confirmation.And once the payment is done, I willreceive um the entire you know successmessage. And I can see on base scanwhich is the main net money beingtransferred from one account to anotheraccount. So if I open my um MetaMaskwallet, this $1 actually is sent. And ifI open my Nova account, it should go upby $130. So 30 cents is from previousone. Um I've been making a bunch ofpayments um trying out whether thisworks or not. So yeah, that's it. Thereyou have it. It is working especiallyworking for humans, right? We've seen itmake it work with humans and livetransactions that I bought a dollarworth of um it is showing two times. Idon't know why but uh we'll fix it. 1010 cents. And when we hit refresh toYeah, this is good. Okay, right now uhwe have a dashboard as well. We have adashboard that uh shows the purchasehistory 10 cents. 10 cents total spent10 cent. It is being updated um a bitlate I believe. Yeah, right now it'shere. And uh the way it works right nowis we are we checked it with humans itworks. But our idea is to um make itwork with cloud bots or open floor asthey're calling it calling themselves.So right now the site is set in a waywhere MetaMask wallet wallet needs to becreated by both sellers and um you knowwallet address public address neededfunded with the USDC. Uh Nova the buyerhas like $4. Um I think the buyer iscalled Atlas not okay I need to updatethe names but uh please know this is thebuyer Atlas and it has the USDC andprivate key is required when you arebuying because that's where the fundsare. But to list a product on a site youdon't really need a private key. Anyonecan list and add a provider addressmanually. And I thought it was badbecause it's really helpful if agentcould register its own account using anactual private key. That way it's moresecure. There is no room for error. Butif you really think about it, they ifthey don't add their address right, theyare the ones who are losing a lot,right? They are not the ones who arelosing. So um as a phase two when we areupgrading updating um escrow and when weare adding transaction fees all of thatI will do a better tutorial a longertutorial covering this but for now umfor seller he doesn't need that AI agentwon't need a private key for that walletanyone can list the service with a justpublic key but for buying you need aprivate key and also don't paste yourkeys in the chat that's not secure whenyou want to send your key I wouldprobably save it in environment variableon the machine and then just mention inthe so for example the buyer agent iswhat really needs the key right so yourpre private key we would say wallet keyin environment so what I would suggestis I would copy this command and pasteit in the terminal whichever you use Ithink this works for Ubuntu and for Macit's slightly different or you can askyour AI how to add uh keys in a securedway in environment variable and it willyour open flow or cloud bot will guideyou. So this is the command that youshould run and I made two cloud bots oneis a buyer one and one is a seller one.So if you look here before I startedthis I need to blur this. Now if youlook here echo export wallet key I pasteright here. And now I want to paste theI want to paste my persona that this isa buyer account. Right now I need topaste whatever buyer prompt that I have.What is the buyer prompt I have? If youopen here, it says your identity isAtlas researchdiagent and Atlas MetaMask address pastehere. I have my MetaMask address whichis this. I pasted this. And I also wantto add this address. Yeah, this is mypublic key. Where do you find the publickey? will come here and you will go tothe buyer agent and copy this Ethereumaddress and base all of these are same.So copy this and uh paste this as well.You go to um the terminal. So I willpaste this will match it and just incase publicaddress and I added this and as you cansee it has written the entire promptatlas uh you are this is metam maskaddress private key and environmentbalance around 4.5 I don't think that'saccurate you'll receive 402 responsewith payment So the entire details um soit said got payment details uh 0.5and we are giving it a set of tasks forfirst task to um do this demo. We areasking register yourselfum on claw ali as a as a buyer. Maybe Ishould have uh started with a newaccount. And we second task we areasking it to browse for availableservices. And then we are askingpurchase a service and four handle thepayment. Receive a 402 payment responsewith payment details. Send the USDCpayment. Use your private key to send a0.5USDC to recipient address. Uh and we aregiving all the details and task