wanted to tease thatthroughout the course to keep you guysum interested and engaged, but this timeI'm actually going to do a fullcomprehensive walkthrough on how to doit. We're going to connect this to ouragent, and then we're going to use it toperform a really simple operation. Ijust want you to notice how how seamlessthe integration is. Once it's set up, Idon't actually have to even like set upthe directive or the script or anything.I can just like uh communicate with itin plain language and it can go in andcall the appropriate tools for me. Let'stalk MCPs. Now, as I've talked about,model context protocol servers differ intheir quality. Some were made prettyhastily, others were made very umcarefully and are very high quality. Butbecause of this, you do have to be alittle bit careful and be open to doingsome trial and error when it comes toadding your own MCPs. Regardless, I'mgoing to show you guys how simple andeasy it is to do. First of all, thereare tools and websites out there likemcpmarket.comand mcpservers.orgwhose sole job it is to basicallycategorize and then list all of the goodMCP features out there. So, as you cansee, there's an MCP for Trigger Dev, MCPfor OpenSpec, Fast API, Pipe Dream, PAL,and these on these tools anyway arebasically rated uh based off of theirquality. So, the higher up the better,right? So, if you want the ability toautomate browser interactions for largelanguage models using Playright, this isthe MCP for you. You know, if you wantChrome DevTools, this is the MCP modelfor you. If you want to automate, Idon't know, Sereno specifically, thenthis is the one for you, and so on andso on and so forth. What I want to do inthis video is show you just how easy itis to set one up. Um, you guys havealready seen me do this for ClickUp,although that wasn't the point of thetutorial. What I'm going to do in thisdemo is just be a lot more specificabout it. So, simplest and easiest wayto get up and running with an MCP isjust to ask your agent. So, I'm justgoing to say, hey, I want to set up aGmail MCP so that I can send emails ondemand from my email address. And thenI'm going to give it some details justthat it knows that, you know, this islike a Google Workspace sort of address.And let's see what it does. First, it'sgoing to look and see whether or notthere's some email MCP already. It'sprobably not going to find it. It reallydoes help to open up these thinkingmodules. So now it's going to say, "Hey,you know, I see you've already set up anSMTP email for this email address, butinstead here are two approaches. First,you can do quick SMTP. Second, you cando the Gmail MCP." So obviously, I wantto do Gmail MCP. Let's do the Gmail MCP.I want you to do everything you can forme. Typically, models will give youinstructions and stuff like this, butit's much better just to have them do itall for you. So, anytime you don'treally know what to do or it's laboriousor involved, just see how much the modelcan do for you. And that's what it iscurrently doing. Okay, cool. And thisactually ended up finding a previousOOTH instance somewhere on my computer.I should note it was not in this folder.I just asked it to get up and going.It's running into some issues herebecause I haven't actually done this forthis MCP before, which isunderstandable. Now, it's going to addsome to my cloud config. Okay, now it'sasking me to sign in. So, I'm going tosign in right over here. Cool. Says theauthentication successful. We can nowclose this window. Okay, so now I justneed to restart cloud code. Okay,just going to go MCP or manage MCPS.See that I had have my Gmail MCPconnected.And now I can just say, "Hey, send anemail to Nicholas orgmail.comsaying what's up." Boom. Just sent methe email. Fantastic. That was easy.Okay, that's cool. Um, now that we'vesent the email, obviously we have totalk about how to set up your own MCPservers, which is way cooler. So, how doyou actually go about this process?Well, I didn't actually know until quiterecently. I just asked how would Icreate my own MCP server, and now it'sgiving me a bunch of knowledge. Here'show to create your own server usingPython. So, hypothetically, just for thepurpose of this demonstration, I want toset up a really simple MCP, one that umjust does something reallystraightforward. Just reads my website.Maybe it has some information about mywebsite, and then it just like returnsinformation about it. So, I said,"Create a simple custom MCP server whosesole job it is is to interact with thiswebsite, www.leftclick.ai."Now, in case you guys didn't know,leftclick.ai is my business. Um, we arethe definitive AI growth partner forfastmoving B2B companies. Uh,essentially what we do is we buildoutbound growth engines that supplementAI to do things like personalize theemails, find leads, and so on and soforth. I talk about it a lot on mychannel. And so, literally all I wantthis MCP to do is basically just to bebe a resource for this website. I wantpeople to be able to download it andthen just be like, "Hey, tell me aboutleftclick and I want it to call theMCP." Is that something you need? No,obviously not. But you don't need MCPsin general. MCPS are just convenient,nice little wrappers around functions.Moving back to Cloud Code here, you cansee that it now created an MCP-serversfolder. And what it's doing next isit'll write the server Python code. Ihave no idea what that Python code lookslike. After that, it'll create some TOMLfor dependencies before providing someregistration instructions for me. Okay,so it looks like it just finished.Creates a server that exposes fivetools. Get company overview, getservices, get booking link, get casestudies, and search site. So that'spretty easy. It's saying, "Hey, do youwant to register with cloud code?" I'lljust say, "Great. Sounds good.Register."It'll go through the rest of thatprocess for me. Okay. So now I'm goingto do a new instance of Cloud Code.Again, going to go /mcp status. It's nowloading my servers. And you can see nowwe have the leftclick st serveravailable. So go to bypass permissionsand then I'll say tell me aboutleftclick. Now what occurs when thishappens is because we have access to theMCP data, it'll actually find that andthen get me information about it. Sothat's what's happening right here. Wecalled the MCP server as opposed todoing something else. Maybe I'll saywhat's the booking link. The reason I'masking this is because I saw there was abooking link feature. So it's going tocall the get booking link function. Hereit is. Leftclick.ai I book a call toschedule a complimentary 30-inutdiscovery call. Now, in my case, I don'tthink I actually have a calendar, whichis why it just gave me the thing andthen it told me where to find it. Buthopefully, it's clear. You can buildyour own MCP servers super easily. So,why build your own MCP servers to beginwith? Well, generally speaking, like Iprobably wouldn't put together MCPservers for most things these daysunless I wanted to share them withothers. So, like a creator building anMCP server for all of his followers touse, that's a pretty good um option. Andso maybe if there's something cool thatyou know I want to share with you guys,I might do that and then make itpublicly available. But aside from that,like why would you build an MCB serverinstead of maybe using cloud skills ordo I've had a lot of people ask me this,Nick, why don't you uh recommend MCPmore often and so on and so forth. Andthe reason why is it's just not reallyrequired. MCP is positive in so far thatit standardizes the ability to calltools and whatnot, but it's alsonegative in so far that it loads a toninto context. Like what you're notseeing here is how many tokens that I amessentially consuming by having this MCPserver. If I go back slash and thenwrite the word context, you'll see thatit actually includes a bunch ofinformation about my context usage. Andso of the basically the entireconversation we've had so far, um I'veused 1.4% in the system prompt, which isjust the um you know, claude.mmd, 7.4%in my system tools, which is justsomething I don't have control over. Andyou'll see that there's 8.2% 2% of myentire context window dedicated just toMCP tools. The rest of the stuff, 0.6%0.6% of my messages. And so what'sreally really kind of annoying is thatthis thing has basically filled up abouthalf of my entire contact window. Andreally I just have like a bunch ofreally simple tools. Leftclick atcompany overview, uh, Gmail send email.You know, this is eating up a ton of mytotal token space if you think about it.The left click server itself is uhalmost what I guess that's like 3,000 orso over 3,000 3,300 or something likethat um of my tokens. And you know thesetokens aren't free. I spend money to usethese tokens. I also obviously everytime I make a message and you know havesome output um the number of tokens inmy prompt it does affect the outputquality which we're going to talk aboutlater. So, for the most part, I don'tactually recommend using MCPS unlessit's something hyper standardized orunless it's like a one-click thing anduh unless, you know, you're building onethat you want to, you know, share maybewith your team or maybe with like agroup of people. All right, so now let'stalk about building the workflows. I'vebuilt a bunch of workflows for youthroughout various demos, but I now Iwant to provide you guys a systematicapproach to be able to do so yourselfreally easily and reallystraightforwardly. First majorprinciple, everything begins and endswith your system prompt. That systemprompt, as we know, is typically calledagents MD, claude MD, Gemini MD, orcursor MD. And there are many morenaming conventions. I'm not going tocover them all. The [snorts] namebasically just needs to match whateveryour IDE or agent looks for. And thecontent should be identical regardlessof how you call it. Now, for Dspecifically, I'll show you guys exactlywhat mine looks like in a sec. Thissystem prompt or agents MD or cloud MDor whatever, it's basically just asupercharged prompt. When youcommunicate with chatbt in your windowor in your browser and you say, "Hey, Iwant you to do whatever for me. That's apretty short prompt. This one isbasically a prompt that's inserted everytime and it's just super super long,super intense, super comprehensive, andit covers more or less all of the edgecases and ideas that you want the modelto have. It should explain yourframework. It should also explain yourthinking, what you want it to do atevery step, and then more. This is howyou customize your agent essentially, soit's not just a cookie cutter vanillaagent that functions the same foreverybody else. The prompt right now iskind of the moat. Now, I do recommendyou to copy and paste mine because it'sjust like out of the box pretty good.But there's some important things I'dlike you guys to make sure to includeregardless of whether you're using mineor whether you guys are using somebodyelse's. The first is you should explainthe framework. So whatever frameworkyou're using, whether you are using door claude skills, you should actuallyexplain that to the model. You shouldtell them where the resources are. Youknow, hey, directives are in the/directives folder. Hey, you should useTMP if you want to store temporaryfiles. Make sure to delete temporaryfiles after you're done. I also find alot of success in explaining therationale behind the framework. Itreduces error rate significantly. So Idon't just say hey you're using the doframework I say hey right now as a largelanguage model the probability that youcan do things completely on your ownwithout any framework is pretty lowbecause of that I'm using a frameworkcalled directive orchestration executionhere's how it works directives storewhatever orchestration is you executiondoes whatever by using this frameworkyou significantly reduce your errorrates and blah blah blah blah here's whyyou should do this right we actuallyconvince the model you almost have toget like buyin from the model when youget buyin from the model the resultingoutputs are a lot higher quality thesecond thing you should include is anexplanation of self- annealing. Now, I'mkind of cheating here because I haven'tactually got to this point, but bearwith me. Self- annealing is the processof the model fixing its own mistakeswithout coming to you first. So, ratherthan just break like an old schoolautomation, self- annealing means ifthere's an error, you then feed thaterror into the model, the model thenreasons and then it solves and thenfinally updates so that it doesn't runinto that problem the next time. In anutshell, self annealing allows themodels to become more resilient. Doesn'tjust get back to working. And every timesomething breaks, it's a feature, not abug, because it reveals weak points inyour flow that you didn't even knowexisted. I'm going to tell you all aboutself-nealing and go really in depth withlike system prompts and stuff like thatlater on, but for now, it's sufficientthat you just know what it is.The third thing you need to include isyou need to include a sense of autonomy.What do I mean by this? Well, I let themodel know that, hey, my goal is for youto run autonomously without me. You arean agentic workflow. I say you shouldtest each system on its own. you shouldidentify mistakes on your own and youshould loop repeatedly until you make itwork. I also say, "Hey, be careful whenyou're sending API calls or consuming mytokens for testing reasons." And then Isay, "Hey man, this is really just arule that says come to me only if youabsolutely need to. I don't want you tocome to me unless you are 100% confidentthat you cannot solve this thing withoutmy human input." And that's very, veryrare. When you do this, your model getssignificantly more autonomous and youreally change it from like this uh aco-builder programming thing into like aco-orker and a co-mp employee. At theend of the day, directives and executionscripts are basically living documents.So, if there's an error or a constraintthat you guys find, you should instructyour agent to update them. Cool. So,talking a little bit more aboutbuilding, if you have SOPs, you'reactually already halfway to havingstrong agentic workflows. All you reallydo is you just open your IDE. You dragyour existing SOP document from, youknow, your knowledge base or yourcompany PDF or your company uh one driveor Google Drive into your workspace. Youjust say, "Hey, I just uploaded a fileinto the workspace. Could you turn itinto a directive and build the executionscripts to make it happen?" Now, if it'sa really simple SOP, let's say somethingthat doesn't even need an executionscript necessarily. It's just like a anAI prompt thing, it it'll just do it andit'll do it like really quickly. If it'sa complex one, it may ask you to verifyits approach. Hey, you know, here's someideas that I have. What do you think Ishould do? Okay. Yeah, let's pick thefirst one. Let's proceed. When the agentdoes this, it'll create the directive in/directives. It'll build whateverscripts are needed, then store them inexecutions, and then if it doesn't haveAPI tokens or whatever, it'll just askyou to add them to an ENV. This worksreally well because SOPs are literallyalready directives. They containeverything the agent needs, the goals,the steps, the inputs, outputs, and edgecases. If yours are written correctly,all you're doing is you're justtranslating your human readabledocuments into another human readabledocument in the form of directives.You're not really getting the agent tolike come up with anything new. It'sjust reformatting and translating into amore token efficient format. All you'rereally doing is converting a recipe intoa format that some sort of robot chefcan follow. You're basically likeprogramming this thing. If your SOPsaren't very good, believe it or not,this is actually an opportunity to makethem better because your agent, knowingthat it does not have everything that itneeds in order to do the task, will askclarifying questions. This will forceyou as a systems engineer to resolveambiguities that a human being mightjust figure it out without explicitlyhaving to write. The resulting directiveends up being a lot better than theoriginal SOP a lot of the time. And itmeans that your messy docs become anopportunity to actually clean up yourprocesses and become a clearer company.I think that's really underrated, butcompanies in general tend to bury thelead. A lot of the time they don'tactually make explicit or verbalize allof the knowledge within the business.It's like, oh, just ask Pete forwhatever. Send an email to this person.I mean, your agent will say, well, like,who the heck is that and why does thatmatter? Right? Can we just include theinformation that we need in order to doit? Now, if you have a big weight stepor something, it'll be like, "Okay, tobe clear, why do you want me to wait?What is the purpose of this?" And so,the very building process itself canactually help significantly upgrade yourbusiness. Now, let's say you have nodocumentation. Well, if you don't haveany pre-existing documentation or SOPs,no problem. We can still make this work.What you do is you begin with some verybasic bullet points that describe yourideas surrounding the agent. I usereally plain conversational language. Iwill literally write down what I want todo as if I'm explaining it to acolleague. I have a bunch of people inmy team. A lot of the time this ismessages that I would have sent to them.So sometimes I literally just go intoSlack and I say, "Hey, I want you to doX, Y, and Z. It should be this. Itshould be that. It should be that."After I'm done explaining it like I'dexplain it to a colleague. I then justcopy and paste it in my agent. Do notoverthink the structure. Don't overthinkthe format. Just get your ideas down.Agents are really good at formattingthis. You can also use voice promptslike you've seen me do a bunch. And thenyou can refine and add detail later asyou test and learn and try differentapproaches. The really cool thing is youdon't actually need to know how to codeat all. You just need to know how toexplain what it is that you want, whichI think is a far more achievable skill.This is a real prompt from a leadgeneration system that I just built. Isaid, "Hey, scrape leads from Appifybased on the industry and location Ispecify. Then verify 80% match my