you can obtain from the codekey page. Copy that. Go back to theworkflow and paste the base URL in. Andof course for the API key, we're goingto take the API key here and we're justgoing to paste it in and we're going tohit save. And you'll see that sometimesdepending on the version of the NA cloudthat you're in, this red bar might popup. Don't worry too much about itbecause I'm going to show you how youcan keep using it even if the red barshows up. And this is just simplybecause the UI itself is not designedfor users to patch in their base URLthemselves like that. And sometimes thatcauses some form of incompatibilitywhich causes the red bar to show up. Inthis case, under model, what we want todo is we're just going to define it byID because we're going to type in thename of the model ourselves because thisis not going to be the models that arein the list from OpenAI. And if you wereto try to grab it from the list, it'snot going to load at all. So, we'regoing to hit buy ID and we're going tomanually type in open AI/GPT-4.1.And that's the model that we want tocall here. As you can see, is GBT-4.1.And with that model, we're going totransfer or rather drop in the chatinput variable. So, that essentiallyeverything is connected. And we're notgoing to add any tool at this pointbecause we're just going to hit executestep. And as you can see it is coming upwith an output or response to the chatinput which is hello. It says hello howcan I help you today. So with thatsimple setup you can now chat with themodel here. For example I can ask why isthe color of the sea blue and as you cansee under the chat the output is here inthe response the sea appears blueprimarily because of the way waterabsorbs and scatters sunlight. Um, andthat's the response for that. Now,that's one way to gain access to a LLMmodel through code key. The other way todo that is to call a HTTP node. So, I'mjust going to add another trigger nodehere. And this time, I'm going to selecttrigger manually. I'm going to move thisdown right here. I'm going to add theHTTP request node. And if you were to goback to the code key documentation, asyou can see, we can actually toggle thisto the curl command and I'm going tocopy the entire chunk here of the curlcommand and go back to my workflow. I'mgoing to hit import curl. I'm going topaste the entire thing and it's a postAPI call to this particular endpointURL. And of course there's someauthentication here which is alreadyprefilled actually because I pasted theentire curl command. Ideally we want toset up the authentication on the headersbut we'll go over that part later on inthe next section. But in this casewithout doing too much what I want to dois I want to just hit execute step andthere you go. So under JSON body you cansee that there is a preconfiguredcontent which is in a single sentence.Why should someone choose codecloud overother platforms to learn DevOps? That isthe user prompt that has beenprepopulated there. So you canessentially replace this with some othervariables that you receive from theinput. Like for example, if it's a chattrigger that's connected, you can dragthose chat trigger as the user input anddrop it in here to replace this wholeline. But here I just want to show youthat it is responding to the user promas someone should choose code cloud overother platforms to learn devops becauseit offers highly interactive hands-onlabs and real world scenario basedexercises that accelerate practicalskills development far beyondtraditional video based courses.So cool. These are the two ways that youcan gain access to the LLM API keys viaKOI. And as I've shown earlier, you canchoose from these various models rightnow. For the next few sections, thismight come in handy for you. Otherwise,you can always go to the actual providerlike OpenAI or Anthropic to get thoseAPI keys. I'll see you in the next one.So I want to run through the differencesbetween running your instance on endcloud versus the lab playground that wehave on the codecloud course. Now thefirst thing you'll notice as you go intothe lab is that you still have toprovide your email and your first namelast name credentials as well as apassword in the instance. And don'tworry this is not saved anywhere. So youdon't actually have to save thecredential and the password somewhere.You can use different emails andpassword for each of these instances. Soonce that's filled in you can hit next.And there's going to be a series ofonboarding questions here which youdon't need to fill. So you can hit getstarted and in the same way for the paidfeatures information you can just skipand there you go. Now you're in theadmin dashboard that is very similar tothe end cloud environment. However,there's still some nuances and somedifferences as we go into the workflow.So here what we're going to do is we'regoing to click start from scratch. Andthe very first workflow that you'regoing to build is the email AI agent.And the first trigger to that is a chattrigger. And I'm going to speed throughthis cuz this is very similar to theworkflow that we've done. But I want tojust show you quickly the differences ofusing the KCloud keyspace as well as theOpenAI API key. So if you're using theKCloud keyspace, what you want to dowhen you select your model, for example,in this case, I'm just going to selectthe OpenAI chat model. And what I wantto do is to follow the instruction inthe left hand bar right here. And yousee that there's a link to Code Key. I'mgoing to just hit that URL. I'm going tohit launch now. and it's going to leadme to this dashboard right here. I'mgoing to click start playground andthere we go. So, this is the dashboardon CodeCloud Keyspace. And what I wantto pick is the OpenAI GPT 4.1. And inthis case, I'm going to just copy theAPI key here. I'm going to go back to myworkflow. And here, I'm going to hitcreate credential. And I'm going topaste the same exact API key. I'm goingto skip the organization ID. And for thebase URL, I want to make sure that I'mreplacing this with the base URL that Iobtained from the KCL keyspace. Go backto my lab and paste the base URL righthere. Okay, so I'm going to hit saveright now. As you can see, it saysconnection tested successfully. However,there's a couple of things I want topoint out here cuz if you pick fromlist, as you can see, the list doesn'treally match the known models of GPT.This is because it's not really workingbased on the UI that's been built. So ifyou try to run it based on the chat IDor chat model that we've selected, I'mjust going to run a hello message here.It's going to go to the AI agent, butit's going to error out. So what youneed to do is go into the chat model andinstead of picking from list, you wantto go by ID and as suggested from theinstruction on the left hand bar here,you want to copy the OpenAI/GPT-4.1.Just copy that and paste it all word forword. And let's do a test run again. Andthis time it should actually be able toaccess the appropriate model. So that'sif you're using the CCloud keyspace APIkeys. Now what I want to point out isthe difference between this and usingthe OpenAI API key is that it's muchmore straightforward when you use OpenAIAPI keys. So to show you the difference,what I'm going to do here is I'm goingto create another new credential and I'mgoing to call it OpenAI account 2. Thistime I'm going to head over toplatform.opai.com.And what I want to do is head over toAPI key section. I'm going to create anew secret key in and then emailintegration. I'm going to hit createsecret key and I'm going to copy the APIkey and head back to my lab. I'm goingto paste the API key and leave the baseURL as is and I'm going to hit save. Sothere you go. So connection testedsuccessfully. And the difference isinstead of by ID, I can now just pickfrom the list and it should load up thecorrect list of models that I mightpossibly want to use. So for example, ifI choose GPT 4.1, it's just going to bethat. And we're going to run this nodeagain. And as you can see, it's callingthe correct model right here. Okay. Sothe next thing I want to point out iswhen you add your Gmail note on the nextworkflow or Google tool for that matterthe difference between doing that in ourlabs versus edit cloud is that on editand cloud you often see when you createa new credential with Gmail that you canactually have a button which you cansign in directly using your Googleaccount if your browser happens to be aGoogle Chrome browser. However, with thelabs what you need to do when you createa new credential is you actually need toconnect it with the o method. So whatyou want to do is you want to head overto console.cloud cloud.google.com.And the first thing you want to do iscreate a new project. And for the newproject, I'm going to name it Enit inemail app. All right. So, I'm going toleave this as no organization. I'm goingto hit create. And it's going to take acouple seconds to create a project. Andonce that's done, I'm going to selectthe project. And as you can see, it saysend email app project. And the veryfirst thing I want to activate is I wantto go to Gmail API.So what I'm doing right now is I'mcreating a project because that's howGoogle recognizes each of these oothaccess that we're giving it. But the waythe security works is you need to enablethe particular tool that you want to usewithin the project. So in this case Iwant to use Gmail. So I want to makesure I enable the Gmail API. All right.Once that's enabled, I want to head overto OOTH consent screen. And right nowthere's no OOTH consent that's set up.So I'm going to just hit get started.And in this case, I'm going to have tocall it an app name as well. So I'm justgoing to say it is an emailapp. Okay. User support email. Going toput this.And we're going to select external. Andby the way, each of these steps isdocumented on the left hand side panelof the lab. So you don't have tomemorize any of these. But we're goingto go to next. And under contactinformation, just going to put my emailhere. And once you're done, just hitcontinue. and create. So, just before wego, I just want to go to audience and Iwant to add a test user here, which isan email that you're going to use tosend out basically the emails that youwant the agent to send out. So, in thiscase, it's maroneia atcookcloud.com.We're going to save that. And lastly,we're almost there. We're going to go toAPI and services again, and this timewe're going to go to credentials. Andwhat we want to do is to hit createcredentials with OOTH client ID andapplication type we want to choose webapplication and under name you want toname it Canadian email oath client andthen we're going to add the authorizedredirect URLs which we can obtain fromour lab. So, going back into the labhere, you see that this is the oathredirect URL and we're going to copythis and we're going to head back andjust fill this in and we're going to hitcreate. As you can see, we now have theclient ID and client secret to the appthat we just created. So, we're going tocopy this and head back to client ID.Paste it in. Client secret. Copy that.Paste in the client secret. And you'llsee now that there is a sign in withGoogle button that pops up. So, what youwant to do is just hit that and a Googlelogin popup will show and then you justwant to correctly select the emailaddress and you'll say that Googlehasn't verified this app. But becauseyou're the one who created it, you knowit's safe. So, we're just going to hitcontinue and we're going to select allbecause we want to have the agent beable to do all these actions with ourGmail. So, we're going to hit continuenow. And as you can see, it saysconnection successful and we're good togo. So, just wait a couple seconds herewithin the labs and it's just going toload up. And there you go. I alreadyhave my credentials set up here and wejust want to run an execute step to showyou that everything is working. So inthe workflow you'll see that we'vechosen to define all of this by themodel. So we're going to let the AIagent define this and we're going tostart chatting and say hi can you sendan email to.comto just say hello. All right so we'regoing to hit this. So as you can see nowthe workflow has run and it's actuallysent an email to my Gmail. So let metake a look and there you go. It sayshello Mercury just want to say hellobest regards. Okay. So obviously it'snot very sophisticated because actuallyin the AI agent we didn't even specifyany system prom. So the whole point isjust to show you the main differencebetween running the environment on Ncloud and within our playgroundsspecifically covering the part wherecode key is being used as well as whenyou're going to access any Google tools,Gmail, Google sheets and stuff likethat. You do need to go to your GoogleCloud Console to set up the project, theapp, and the OOTH clients in order toaccess Google services with theworkflow. And as you explore Nit in thecourse, you're going to realize thatthere's going to be some differencesbetween running edit cloud and editwithin your own self-hosted environment.For example, the availability ofcommunity notes, supported versions, anda few other features that might only beavailable on edit cloud. So if you'refacing any issues any part of thatbuild, just keep in mind that it mightbe because you're using a self-hostedversion or a lab hosted version fromCodeCloud. And it's not necessarily alimiting issue. There's always a workararound for that. It's just something tokeep in mind about. I want to take aminute to go through the different typesof authentication that we can make inour approaches when we make HTTP requestnodes and the corresponding API calls.Now, as you've seen in the previoussection, the HTTP request node is a veryconvenient way for us to replicate anAPI call without configuring everything.And it's especially useful when we canjust go to an API documentation and hitthe import curl, essentially import theentire curl command. Now, as you've seenin the previous example, there are a fewways that we can configure theauthentication method in these APIcalls. Now, most of the API calls aregoing to be header authentication. Asyou can see in this section after I'veimported the curl, it automaticallyconfigures the header section andpopulate it with the name and the valueformat of the API keys forauthorization. Now you can do it thisway or you can actually set up acredential type here. Now I want toexplain the difference between the two.So there are two main reasons why youwould want to do it this way by settingup a credential type. The number onereason is it's just super convenientbecause the moment you have set this upwith the header off credential, you canjust pick from the list of credentialyou've created in the next upcomingnodes or even in another workflow. Andthis is especially useful when you havean API call that has a post and a get soyou don't have to set it up again innext node. Now the second reason why youwant to do it this way is for securityreasons because setting up credentialtype allows you to approach theauthentication without hard coding theAPI key into the parameters and this isjust a better practice to ensuresecurity especially when you're sharingthe workflow on the project withmultiple team members and individualsand all your credentials is going to bestored under credential tab you can havean overview of the list of credentialsthat you've set up and of course you candelete it or you can recon configure itfrom this page. Now, that's it aboutauthentication. I'll see you in the nextsection. So, in this section, we'regoing to run through how to set up yourGoogle Cloud Console and connect it toyour NDN. That way, you're going to beable to start using the Google notessuch as Google Drive, Gmail, GoogleSheet, Google Docs, and a variety ofothers without setting it up over andover again. So, the note that we'regoing to start with here is the GoogleDrive node. And the reason why we'rechoosing this is because the way toconnect it is going to be similar acrossall nodes. In fact, once you'veconnected it once, everything else wouldjust be a simple matter of enabling APIsthrough your Google Cloud console. So,in this case, under credential, what Iwant to do is to create a newcredential. And in order to get yourclient ID and client secret, where youwant to go is to go toconsole.cloud.google.com.And depending on whether you've workedwith Google Cloud before, and by theway, if you have and you already knowhow to get connected with Nitnen, thenfeel free to skip over to the nextsection. But your page might lookslightly different from what I'm seeingright now. But in any case, where youwant to go is on the top leftand corner.You want to pick the project here. Andagain, as you can see, I already haveone set up, but I'm going to set upanother one. Click on new project. AndI'm going to call it end demo KKK. Andunder location, I'm going to pick neworganization here. And I'm going to hitcreate. And there you go. It's creatinga Niden demo KKK project. I'm going toclick on select project and I'm going topull up the left hand sidebar here.Where I want to go is under APIs andservices. I want to go to the OOTHcontent screen and nothing set up yet.So I'm going to hit get started. So appinformationand then demo KKK. I'm going to call itthe same name for the app and click thatas the email. And for the audience, youhave the choice of internal and externaldepending on whether you