single cool thing I do with it.That's my goal and ambition because if Ican do those two things, one, I can makemoney without putting as much work in.And two, I can keep advancing my YouTubeand my Twitter feeds and all thatbecause I'll be creating content aroundeverything I do. So, I'm putting in allmy goals and ambitions. I also said Iwant to make a million dollars in a yearthrough my SAS and through my differentproducts. And I put that all in. And nowme and my open claw are on the sameexact page. And everything we dotogether will be in an effort to getcloser to those goals and ambitions. Soyou want to do the exact same thing. Ifyou don't know what your goals andambitions are, you can just put in, Iwant to start my own online business andmake my first dollar. Something likethat. Just put that in so your open clawis aware of your goals and ambitions.And the best part is it's going toremember all of this. It will be savedto memory and every conversation youhave moving forward that will beincluded in context. So you brain dumpthose in. Your open claw knowsabsolutely everything about you. Nowyou're ready to cook. You've beenintroduced to your open claw. You'rebest friends now. Your best pals. Youhave a digital BFF. That's amazing. Nowwe can start getting to work and getproductive. The first thing I haveeveryone set up when they're in OpenClawis a morning brief, a custompersonalized morning brief. This is areport your OpenClaw will send youautonomously every single morning thatgives you all the information you needto know about that day. My openclawHenry sent me this this morning. It isValentine's Day today and it actuallystarted with good morning and happyValentine's Day. Very nice touch byHenry. But it gave me an entire morningbrief. Gave me the weather. It gave meall the news about my interest. So knowsI'm super into vibe coding. I loveClaude Code. I love Codeex. It gave meall the new trends in vibe coding. Itspent all night researching the news,reading the news for me, figuring outwhat was relevant. It gave me a bunch ofideas for videos I can film today. So, Iwake up, maybe I don't have any ideasfor videos. I can go, oh, Henry gave mea few right here, and I can choose oneof them and film much easier. And thebest part is actually writing me thescripts and sending it to my Discord.But that's an advanced workflow we'll gothrough a little bit later. It's alsogoing through my tasks and to-do list.So, it's connected to my Things three,which is the to-do list app I use, andit's able to tell me what tasks I haveon there and even what tasks I assign toHenry on there. So, I wake up, I knowexactly what I need to start tacklingthat day. And then it gave merecommendations for tasks I need to doright away. So, choosing a video angle,going through our approval queue, whichis a bunch of tweets and content thatcame up for me, and I just need toapprove it. And then that's a nicelittle touch there, telling me to enjoyit cuz it's Valentine's Day. you need tohave your own custom morning brief likethis. And this is super easy to set up.So here's a little bit about how thisworks. Your open claw at any time canjust schedule things to do in thefuture. So it uses what's called cronjobs, which is basically just scheduledtasks to do things in the future. So ifI say, "Hey, bills me a morning briefevery morning at 6:00 a.m." It willschedule in perpetuity forever 6:00 a.m.every day for it to do something. Sothis is how we do it. We'd say, I putthis down in the description below.Please schedule a brief for me every dayat 8 a.m. Send it to my telegram in themorning brief. I want number one, theweather wherever you are. Number two,the top news stories in AI. This couldbe any interest you have that you wantnews on. Number three, any task I havein my to-do list on things. Three, thiscan be whatever to-do list app you'recurrently using. And number four, taskyou can complete for me today thatbrings me closer to my goals. This isprobably the most important one becausewhat this allows your open claw to do isthink for itself. What can I do tocomplete tasks for my boss? And thiswill open up doors you've never thoughtof before. You're going to be doing thisas much as possible. And I'm going totalk about this a little bit later inthe video. It's called reverseprompting. It's instead of us tellingwhat OpenC claw to do, we're lettingopen claw think for itself to figure outwhat to do. Much more on that coming up.You're going to hit enter on this andyou're going to be good to go. By theway, if you've learned anything so far,we've covered a ton. Make sure to leavea like down below. Make sure tosubscribe and turn on notifications cuzall I do is create incredible videosabout OpenClaw. And also, if you wantlive boot camps, every Friday I do alive boot camp on OpenClaw where you canhang out with me, ask me questions, seelive demos. I do it all in the vibecoding academy. Link for that is downbelow. We have, at the time of filming,600 people in the Vibe Coding Academyjoining these live boot camps everyFriday. So, I hope to see you there. So,feel free to customize this prompt anyway you want with anything you want inyour morning brief. Make this custom toyou and you're not locked into this. Youcan at a later point go back and say,"Hey, tweak my morning brief with this,tweak it with that." Again, this isconstantly self-improving this openclaw. Next, I want to talk about missioncontrol. Now that we have our morningbrief set up, the next big thing you'regoing to want to do as one of your firstuse cases is build a mission control.What's a mission control? It is a customdashboard for you and your open claw tobuild the tools you need to beproductive and get closer to your goals.This is what my mission control lookslike here. I've been building this outfor weeks now. As you can see in thelefth hand side, there are tons ofdifferent custom tools me and myopenclaw built out together. This wasall vibecoded by my openclaw Henry. Ididn't write any of this code myself. Ididn't even vibe code this myself. Isaid, "Henry, go and build a missioncontrol for me." And it vibe coded itfor itself. That's not vibe coding. Icall this vibe orchestration. We're vibeorchestrating our open claw. So, youwant to build this out, too. You want tohave your OpenClaw build you out amission control where it can build anyof the custom tools it needs. thingslike to-do lists, things like places totrack all your sub aents like I havehere. Things like an approvals queuewhere it can write you content and youcan just approve it and it sends it out.All these are custom tools you can buildout. The number one request I get is,"Hey, can you open source your missioncontrol?" Yes, I will do thateventually, but I do not recommend thatas the way to setting up your missioncontrol. Your mission control should becompletely custom to you, your goals,your ambitions, and your open claw. Sowhat you want to do is now that we haveour morning brief set up. Go to youropen claw and say this. I put thisprompt down below. Feel free to copy andpaste it. I want you to set up a missioncontrol. This is a custom place for usto build out any tools we need to bemore productive. Please build this usingNex.js and host it locally. That willcause your open claw to go vibe codemission control for you which will justbe a custom dashboard. And then fromthere you'll be able to go and say heylet's build a to-do list together,right? Let's build a visualization ofyou working. Anything you need, it canthen go and vibe code it inside yourmission control. You don't need codingexperience for this. It can just do itfor you. And now as you're working, themindset becomes, okay, what can we buildout to make this workflow simpler? Whatcan we build out to make this easier forus? Anytime you have your open claw dosomething, you can say, hey, how wouldwe do this with a custom tool in ourmission control? Again, that's reverseprompting, which is probably the mostimportant concept in AI. Instead oftelling your bot what you want it tobuild, you're saying based on what youknow about us and what we do, whatshould we build? You're asking your botquestions. Just reverse prompt as muchas you can, and it will start buildingout these custom tools for you in yourmission control. The next advancedconcept I want to talk about will saveyou money and improve your workflows,and that's the concept of brains andmuscles with your open claw. The way Ilike to think about it is whatever modelyou chose during setup is your brain.It's the one that orchestrates anddecides what to do. And then you can useother models as muscles. These are goingto be the models that actually do workand create things. So Opus 46 currentlyis the best brain in the world. It isthe best to talk to. It is the bestdecision maker. I like using Opus as thebrain. Again, it's very expensive. So Ilike to use other models as muscles. Sofor instance, for coding, I like to usecodeex for the muscle because that'svery cheap but still very powerful. Forfinding the latest news, I like to useXAI. So whether that's the X API or theGro API because XAI is very good atfiguring out what's trending at themoment because it's hooked into socialmedia. For searching the web, I like touse the Brave API. The Brave API is avery good and cheap API for searchingthe web and finding current information.And so that's the muscle I use forsearching the web. You want to set upthese brains and muscles. You alreadyhave the brain set up. So all you needto do now is go to your open claw andsay, "Hey, for coding moving forward,please use the codec cli." Then it willask you for your open AAI API key. Yougive it to it. You got that muscle setup. Then you say, "Hey, for findingtweets, I want you to use the X API."It'll ask you for your API key. Boom,you're set up. You have that muscle setup. Now, moving forward, your brain,which is opus, can save tokens becauseit's not doing everything itself. It'sinstead spinning up other muscles andother models to do that work for it. So,you're not only saving money on tokens,but you are also using the best modelsfor the best jobs out there, which ishuge. It makes your workflow moreefficient. Now, where we start getting alittle bit more advanced is when itcomes to local models. The endgame in mymind is when we start using local modelsfor each one of these muscles. I spentover the last few weeks $20,000 on MacStudios. Why did I do that? I wanted themost powerful computers humanly possiblethat will allow me to run local models.What are local models? Those are AImodels that are not run on the internet,in the cloud, in servers. They areinstead run on your computer. And thathas many benefits. that allows you tohave a unlimited token so you can justdo whatever you want locally and b givesyou your own personalized localintelligence. I believe this is thefuture. So what I started doing is Istarted using local models for some ofthese muscles. So for instance coding Inow use MiniAX 2.5 completely locally.Now all coding is done completely freefor me locally on my computer. Now doesthis mean you need to go out and spend$10,000 on a Mac Studio? No. But as youget more advanced and as you set up moreof these workflows, you can start tothink about as you go along. Okay, maybeI can replace this workflow with a localmodel or this one and then you canslowly upgrade your hardware from there.So local models is definitely a conceptyou want to consider. I strongly believein the near future we will have superintelligent local models that we can runon our computers where we don't have tospend a penny on tokens anymore. It allhappens locally. I started preparing forthat future by buying a Mac Studio. Youcan run local models on Mac minis. Theywon't be as powerful, but at least youcan get them running and you can getused to a future where you have localintelligence running on your computers.On top of that, they're just super funto play with, super interesting to use.You learn a lot more about thetechnology. You get a lot more familiarwith AI. So, I can't recommend itenough. Start doing research into localmodels. Start spitting them up. you'llhave a lot of fun and you'll get a moreadvanced workflow out of it. I also wantto get into some more advanced conceptshere, which is the open claw mindset.How you want to think about open clawoverall. Number one is I see a lot ofpeople making mistakes when it comes tousing their open claw. I see them doingthings that break their open claw and itnever works again. I see themcommunicating with it in a way that'sjust inefficient. Here's the mindset youneed to have with openclaw. One is it isa super intelligent human beingemployee. you are the manager of thishuman being employee. I see a lot ofpeople going in and they're like, "Oh, Iwant to change the way OpenClaw workshere. I wanted to do this instead." Andthey go in and they mess with the configfiles and they change things around.That's the stupidest thing you can do.That's how you break your open claw. Ifyou want your open claw to behavedifferently, you don't go in and changeconfig files. You say, "Hey, open claw,I want you to do this differently, orI'd like you to do this." You give itgoals and objectives. You don't tell ithow to do things. You tell it what theend state you want is and it goes andfigures out how to get to that endstate. So if for instance it has theconcept of heartbeats, what areheartbeats? Heartbeats are every halfhour it goes and it checks to see if ithas any tasks it needs to doautomatically. Say you want to speed upheartbeats. You want it to be every 5minutes instead because you have areally advanced workflow you're doing.What I'm seeing a lot of people doing isthey're going in the config file andthey're manually changing the heartbeat.No, you want to give it a goal and itwill figure out the best way to do that.So you say, "Hey, Open Claw, I want youto change your heartbeat to every 5minutes." It will go and figure out theright way to edit its own stuff. Yougive the endstate goal, it figures outthe way. Stop thinking about how itshould do things. It's a superintelligent employee. It will figure outthe best way to do things. Next, reverseprompting is your friend. This is themost important recommendation I cangive. Reverse prompting because this isa super intelligent human employee. Youwant to lean on it as much as possiblefor decision-making. You don't want tomake all the decisions yourself. Youwant to say, "Hey, what's the best wayto do this?" Or, "Based on what you knowabout me, what would you do here?" Or,"Based on our goals and ambitions, whatwould you build out in our missioncontrol?" You're constantly askingquestions rather than telling it what todo. The more questions you ask your openclaw, the better the results will be.I'll tell you this, the more reverseprompts you can do on a daily basis, themore powerful your open claw will be.So, reverse prompt, reverse prompt,reverse prompt. Write that down on apost-it note. Put it on your monitor.Reverse prompt as much as humanlypossible and you'll get way more powerout of open cloth. And here's animportant one as well. Anytime it messesup, anytime it has a task it can't do,ask it to figure it out and build asolution. So, for instance, I said, Iwant you to be able to send me tweetsand then wait for my approval to sendthe tweets out. When I asked to do that,it didn't have an approvals queue. So,it went out and built its own approvalsqueue for me inside my mission control.anything it can't do, just have it buildit out. It is a self-improving bot.Anytime it messes up, so maybe itforgets something or it does somethingthe wrong way, say, "Hey, pause rightthere, Open Claw. Build a new skill thatsolves this problem." So, for instance,I wanted to write my newsletters. Linkto my newsletters down below. I wantedto send me drafts every single Wednesdaynight, and it wrote me a couplenewsletters, and they both stunk. So, Isaid, "Hey, let's pause here. Readthrough all my past newsletters, thenbuild a newsletter skill that helps youwrite better newsletters." It went, itbuilt this new skill, and now it'sself-improved. Anytime it can't dosomething, or anytime it does somethingpoorly, say, "Hey, pause. Figure it out.Build a skill to do this better, build atool in our mission control to do thisbetter." And moving forward, it will bebetter and give you way better results.Remember, it is self-improving. And keepthat in mind anytime you do something.So, I went through the basics. I wentthrough some more advanced things. Iwent through a couple use cases for youhere. Let's go through another advancedworkflow for you here. I think Discordis incredible for advanced workflows.You can set up multiple channels insideDiscord to have bots in and do differentthings with them. So, for instance, Ihave an alerts channel where every twohours Henry goes and finds me trendingtweets on X about my favorite subjects.I then have a research channel whereHenry will go take the trending tweetsand then do more investigative work onthose stories. Then I have a scriptschannel where then it then takes thosestories and writes me YouTube scriptsbased on those stories. As you can see,I have this huge workflow where everychannel Henry's doing somethingdifferent in and I can just go in andhave a record of all the work he did.Highly recommend taking advantage ofDiscord. I don't see Discord as areplacement for Telegram. I see Discordas a supplement for Telegram. So go in,say, "Hey, say OpenClaw, I want you tobuild me out an advanced Discordworkflow. What do you think would bechannels we could have in there thatwould make our workflow even better?"Boom. A