about 1.2 billion parameters. The bias vector also accounts for a couple more parameters, but it's a trivial proportion of the total, so I'm not even gonna show it. In GPT-3, this sequence of embedding vectors flows through not one, but 96 distinct MLPs, so the total number of parameters devoted to all of these blocks adds up to about 116 billion. This is around 2 thirds of the total parameters in the network, and when you add it to everything that we had before, for the attention blocks, the embedding, and the unembedding, you do indeed get that grand total of 175 billion as advertised. It's probably worth mentioning there's another set of parameters associated with those normalization steps that this explanation has skipped over, but like the bias vector, they account for a very trivial proportion of the total. As to that second point of reflection, you might be wondering if this central toy example we've been spending so much time on reflects how facts are actually stored in real large language models. It is true that the rows of that first matrix can be thought of as directions in this embedding space, and that means the activation of each neuron tells you how much a given vector aligns with some specific direction. It's also true that the columns of that second matrix tell you what will be added to the result if that neuron is active. Both of those are just mathematical facts. However, the evidence does suggest that individual neurons very rarely represent a single clean feature like Michael Jordan, and there may actually be a very good reason this is the case, related to an idea floating around interpretability researchers these days known as superposition. This is a hypothesis that might help to explain both why the models are especially hard to interpret and also why they scale surprisingly well. The basic idea is that if you have an n-dimensional space and you wanna represent a bunch of different features using directions that are all perpendicular to one another in that space, you know, that way if you add a component in one direction, it doesn't influence any of the other directions, then the maximum number of vectors you can fit is only n, the number of dimensions. To a mathematician, actually, this is the definition of dimension. But where it gets interesting is if you relax that constraint a little bit and you tolerate some noise. Say you allow those features to be represented by vectors that aren't exactly perpendicular, they're just nearly perpendicular, maybe between 89 and 91 degrees apart. If we were in two or three dimensions, this makes no difference. That gives you hardly any extra wiggle room to fit more vectors in, which makes it all the more counterintuitive that for higher dimensions, the answer changes dramatically. I can give you a really quick and dirty illustration of this using some scrappy Python that's going to create a list of 100-dimensional vectors, each one initialized randomly, and this list is going to contain 10,000 distinct vectors, so 100 times as many vectors as there are dimensions. This plot right here shows the distribution of angles between pairs of these vectors. So because they started at random, those angles could be anything from 0 to 180 degrees, but you'll notice that already, even just for random vectors, there's this heavy bias for things to be closer to 90 degrees. Then what I'm going to do is run a certain optimization process that iteratively nudges all of these vectors so that they try to become more perpendicular to one another. After repeating this many different times, here's what the distribution of angles looks like. We have to actually zoom in on it here because all of the possible angles between pairs of vectors sit inside this narrow range between 89 and 91 degrees. In general, a consequence of something known as the Johnson-Lindenstrauss lemma is that the number of vectors you can cram into a space that are nearly perpendicular like this grows exponentially with the number of dimensions. This is very significant for large language models, which might benefit from associating independent ideas with nearly perpendicular directions. It means that it's possible for it to store many, many more ideas than there are dimensions in the space that it's allotted. This might partially explain why model performance seems to scale so well with size. A space that has 10 times as many dimensions can store way, way more than 10 times as many independent ideas. And this is relevant not just to that embedding space where the vectors flowing through the model live, but also to that vector full of neurons in the middle of that multilayer perceptron that we just studied. That is to say, at the sizes of GPT-3, it might not just be probing at 50,000 features, but if it instead leveraged this enormous added capacity by using nearly perpendicular directions of the space, it could be probing at many, many more features of the vector being processed. But if it was doing that, what it means is that individual features aren't gonna be visible as a single neuron lighting up. It would have to look like some specific combination of neurons instead, a superposition. For any of you curious to learn more, a key relevant search term here is sparse autoencoder, which is a tool that some of the interpretability people use to try to extract what the true features are, even if they're very superimposed on all these neurons. I'll link to a couple really great anthropic posts all about this. At this point, we haven't touched every detail of a transformer, but you and I have hit the most important points. The main thing that I wanna cover in a next chapter is the training process. On the one hand, the short answer for how training works is that it's all backpropagation, and we covered backpropagation in a separate context with earlier chapters in the series. But there is more to discuss, like the specific cost function used for language models, the idea of fine-tuning using reinforcement learning with human feedback, and the notion of scaling laws. Quick note for the active followers among you, there are a number of non-machine learning-related videos that I'm excited to sink my teeth into before I make that next chapter, so it might be a while, but I do promise it'll come in due time. Thank you.