From a highle perspective, there areessentially only two ways to make moneyfrom bug bounty. One of them isautomation hacking and the other ismanual hacking. I and many other bugbounty hunters choose to focus primarilyon manual hacking for a number ofreasons. One of them is that it requiresless initial investment to actually getstarted. So you need to invest less ofyour own money in order to actuallystart making money from bug bounty. Thesecond reason is it often leads tohigher severity vulnerabilities. So morein the high to critical category. Well,not always, but a lot of automationhacking tends to look for more mediumtype vulnerabilities which don't reallyhave a lot of attack chains or anythinglike this. And the final reason is thathonestly I just find it funner. I justfind it more interesting to manuallylook at an application instead of buildsome like bot that's going to do it forme. Those are the main reasons that Ifocus on manual hacking. And in thisvideo, I've collected three other videoson my channel that talk about manualhacking and are hopefully going to helpyou get started in it. Now, before youclick off thinking that this is just arepost of videos that I made before,I've added some additional commentary tothe videos of things that I've justlearned about manual hacking, some newtools that I found or some newtechniques that I've discovered. Buteven if you've actually watched thesevideos before, I think it's worth goingover them and watching them again. Thisis a pretty funny AI generated picturegenerated by me by Chad GPD. Thank youvery much. And you can see here have abit of ground. And if you imagine, justuse your imagination that the groundhere is the target that you're hackingon. It's like all the attack surface.It's like all the possible things youcan find, all the features, like everybutton, like every source code, like allthe domains, just all that is thisground, right? And we start from thesurface. We don't we don't knowanything. We don't have any recon. Wedon't have any reconnaissance. Someone'sunderground. Right. This this diamondhere is going to be our vulnerability.It's hidden somewhere in like a featureor something like that. There's likesome kind of parameter that's going toallow us to exploit some kind ofvulnerability. That's great. There'sdiamond here and we're trying to findthat diamond. Basically, if I washunting for this diamond, there's twoways you can do it, right? If you thinkabout it, you could either startexcavating this like top surface on theground here and hope that the diamond issomewhere like near the surface. It'slike surface level, right? So youexcavate like a wide area of ground andand you check if the diamond's there,right? And the second way to do it is tojust like start drilling deep. Like youthink that diamonds are like bedrocklevel or something and you basically getlike a drill and start going all the waydown like and then hopefully you findthe diamond somewhere deep undergroundwhere other people aren't looking.So that's basic oops that's basicallythe two ways that we can approach anytarget. We can attack a wide surfacearea. So we can attack a load ofsubdomains like a load of end points. Wecan have a load of scanners set up. Youcan have automated stuff like this andhope that the vulnerability is surfacelevel. It's a vulnerability that doesn'trequire a lot of human thinking. It justrequires like machines to go in and likefind stuff like that using subdomains.The other approach is the deeperapproach. You hope that one area ofground that that one particular area ifyou go deep enough into it, you'll findsome kind of vulnerability. So you'repraying that this that the diamond justhappens to be on the column that you'redigging at. And hopefully if you go deepenough you'll find and hopefully it'snot a massive waste of time. Right?That's kind of the two approaches thatyou can take. The best approach is kindof a combination of both. You don't wantto just spend your time going into likeone feature of of a program. But youalso don't want to just go completelysurface level because the diamonds atthe surface are always going to be kindof smaller as well. You know like deeperyou go in the bigger the diamonds aregoing to be. So if you kind of imaginethat analogy hunting a program, you[snorts] want to dig deep enough thatyou kind of have these bigger diamondshere. But if you spend too much time onone feature, then you might be limitingyourself. You might be going too far.Maybe it's time to check another areaand go a bit wider. Right? That's kindof the mentality I want you to have.So when you're going wide, there's acouple of things that you can do, right?So the main thing is finding subdomain.So enumerating subdomains and basicallytrying to find more attack area. Anotherthing is scanning, automated scanning.That's trying to like deep a little bitsurface level trying to get like someeasy like XSS vulnerability orsomething. So unless you're running likea custom template, you're probably goingto dup to be honest. But unless you alsofind a lot of sub doains, you can find alot of sub domains then you can maybefind some some dup. So something likenuclei here like a nuclear template onyour tag and trying to find something.And then just general forcing a kind ofgeneral for not like it's not specific,right? So if you're like specificallyfuzzing for like a parameter that'sdifferent. But if you're fuzzing like asubdomain that you know nothing aboutand you're just trying to find some likeexposed like environment file thenthat's what I would call wide. So you'rejust trying to find like a specific kindof endpoint on a domain on a subdomainand you're just seeing if it's there soyou get that quick vulnerability. Right.So that's kind of wide.And then deep is when you're actuallygoing into the features you're actuallyunderstanding the application. Right? Soyou're trying to enumerate the features.You're trying to find parameters. Sothere's actually elements to fuzzingwhen you're going deep as well. It's notjust like just there like you're justthinking about something. You also kindof want to do discovery, right? So youwant to find parameters. You want to tryand test out like new feature maybe likefuzz headers as well. Those kind ofthings will help you get a generalunderstanding of the application andsource code analysis which is anotherthing. Mostly I'm talking aboutJavaScript here. So JavaScript analysis.But if this is an whitebox test, thenmaybe actually reading the source codeis going to actually be possible. Or ifthis is an open- source tool, then youcan actually read the source code aswell and get an understanding of that.So I'm going to mostly be going into thedeep side today because I think the wideside is already fairly well covered by alot of tutorials, but I think this deepside actually is a little bit stillunexplored for a lot of people becauseit requires a bit of thinking, requiresa bit of target specific knowledge.Well, I feel like the deep side actuallyis made a lot easier by AI. And I'mgoing to show you how I use AI tobasically dig deep into a target andwithout having to use a lot of my ownbrain. But now I'm going to hop into alive example. I'm going to show you howI would do recon on hacker one with someof these deep tactics. So this is hackerone. Probably not a new site to most ofyou. So you're probably used to thisprogram. First recon I would definitelydo is just to actually get used to usingthe the platform. So, I would spend oneor two days just using this applicationand figuring out how to actually usethem. If you followed my guide where youchoose a target that you already usedbefore, then you can skip that step. Butif this is a completely new thing, thenyou should spend some time getting usedto how the application works and what iteven is. And that's the first bit ofrecut I would do. The second thing[clears throat]which I think a lot of book bountyhunters don't actually do is to deploysome kind of reax. So reax regularexpressions is something that basicallywill matchsome kind of terms in a bit of text andcontext of a website we're going tomostly be looking at JavaScript andobviously HTML as well but mostlyJavaScript right. So, there's this toolcreated by another hacker calledLinkfinder that's kind of nice to useand you can create some offshoot reaxesfrom that that I'll show you in aminute. First of all, I'm going to showyou the actual code for this. So, thecode is here. I've edited it slightlyjust to suit my needs, but you canprobably get the unedited versionsometimes. And the goal here is thatthis what this will do is this will justfind links on the website and then it'llreturn it to us. So I'll just show it toyou what it looks like for now. So Iopen up the bookmark and I'll runlinkfinder and this will just grab graball like the endpoints on the website.And why we want to do this? Well, thisis useful to find APIs, find unused APIcalls, just generally get anunderstanding of the features and thenfind other links like internal linkspotentially on JavaScript as well, whichis all very useful.thing is a lot of people are runningthis tool already though and definitelyon something like hacker one a verypopular program you can see thatprobably most people have alreadydiscovered a lot of these endpoints whatwe want to do is try and design ourcustom tools tools that other peoplearen't going to be running at the momentthat's the ideal goal of rejax right sosee I have my own custom tools designedhere and I'm going to show you exactlyhow you can do the same thing rightso with this JavaScript here what weneed to do is just edit the reax so justSo it will return the data in the sameformat but will give us a different typeof result and this is right here. Wewant to edit this right here. Right? Sothis is all the redex that we want toedit. And I'm just going to I'll linkthis in the description for you.Actually there'll be link in thedescription hopefully if I don't forget.But we want to place our template inhere basically. And how do we designtemplates? Well best way to do it wouldbe to know reax and then go in and makeit yourself. I don't do that thoughbecause Red X is kind of complicatedespecially on minified JavaScript. So wecan consult our best friend here.Consult our best friend Chajb to try anddesign us a reax here. So how would I goabout doing this? The ideal way is totry and design it yourself first andthen get Chad to improve it. But I'm noteven going to be bothered with thateither. I'm just going to go type inhere. I'm going to say uh design reaxfor me.that will, let's just say I want to tryand find all the strings on this webpage. It's kind of random, right? Thatwill find all the strings from minifiedJavaScript. I don't know why you wouldwant to do this, but just to give you anexample, you can find anything. Youcould maybe find like path traversals orsomething like that and all the thatwill extract extract all the stringsfrom minifi JavaScript. Now, animportant thing to do is to tell Chargto think because if you use just thedefault fast version, it'll probablygive you [ __ ] reax. We want it to thinkand actually give us some code reax. So,we go in here and let's just see what itgives us. We'll say design some reax forme. It'll hopefully think for a moment.And while I do that, I'll just bringback the code. And we're just going toinject it in here right when gives it tous. And then we're going to create a newbookmark,right? Seems like we've gotten some reaxhere.Let's see if it works. Sometimes tragicPT will make a mistake in terms of reax.So you might have to tweak it a littlebit and tweak tweak it, but we're goingto just test it out first. We're goingto paste the reax into the It's alreadygiven us the brackets here. So we'regoing to copy paste this. Now with thenew reax, we're going to go here andwe're going to sayadd a bookmark. We're going to say likestring finder. That's usually what Icall this. And then we're just going tocopy paste this into it. We've saved itthere. Now let's run string fightinder.Let's see what string finder returns tous. So give it a few seconds there.And there you go. It seems like it'sactually returned all the strings to us.Wow. You see? And now we have Oh,[laughter] okay. Some of that is verylong. Sometimes, especially with minifiJavaScript, the kind of results you getmight be a bit dodgy. You might get somegarbage, but on the off, but most of theresults seemto be accurate here. We managed to getall the actual strings here. So now wecan uh basically look for stuff here ifyou wanted to. Like you see, we havedevice width. We could basically copythem. And now what you want to do whenyou have this result actually is youwant to go into the source code into thedebugger want to search and actuallylocate that. One of the really cooltools that I've actually discoveredrecently especially useful forJavaScript analysis is called JX Scout.And what this will basically do is itwill download JavaScript files that arebeing loaded by your browser onto aVisual Studio folder and then you canaccess it from Visual Studio using anextension. And if you're running Reaxthe way I recommend in this video andthen looking at it through the Chrome orFirefox dev tools, it's not really goingto be that great. And the reason isbecause the dev tools are absolute arepretty terrible at actually looking andanalyzing JavaScript. What is ideal isusing something like Visual Studio whichis going to format the code for us. It'sgoing to actually beautify it and thenit's going to load source map sourcemaps for us as well. And JX Scout isactually going to help us to do that. Sowhat I would actually recommend isinstead of running the reax and tryingto find it inside of, you know, thewhat's it called the dev tools, I wouldactually run it and then try and findthe feature inside Visual Studio insteadfrom a JavaScript file that I've loadedin before. And I would even go as far asto say that you can even run the reax inVisual Studio itself. Visual Studio letsyou run reax as well on a number ofdifferent files. And the reason I thinkthis is great is because when you run aJavaScript bookmark, you run it only onone aspect of the website, right, on onepage. But if you run it on Visual Studiowith all the JavaScript filesdownloaded, let's say you were justnavigating to the website and you justdownloaded all the JavaScript files inthe background, then you can run it onall the web all the pagessimultaneously, right? So you can getall the results for it. And this isimportant because a lot of websites useWebpack. They use chunks to break downthe website into a number of differentcomponents. So instead of sending oneuser the entire website from JavaScript,a lot of companies say that this is notsafe anymore and they use Webpack tosplit the website into chunks.So what I will do is I would use VisualStudio Code to actually use Reax tosearch the entire website and then tryand find it in the code and look at notthe minified JavaScript but actualprettier looking JavaScript, right?Maybe they show like an example of it.Yeah. So this is what it looks like,right? So in instead of having that likegarbage minified stuff, you get it likenicely loaded in. You get it, you know,formatted and sorted for you, right?This is usually what it's going to looklike. The variable names are still goingto be not useful at all. However, it isgoing to at least be formatted for youand it's going to be like highlightedand stuff like that. And then you'regoing to get this thing on your rightwhich is also going to show you somestuff that you might be interested in tolook for client side vulnerabilities. Sothis is what a tool that I wouldrecommend to use instead of using theregulardev tools to actually look at theJavaScript code. I do still see value inusing the JavaScript bookmarklets justbecause when you run the reax on VisualStudio Code, you're going to get a lotof results back and sometimes it can bea little bit overwhelming and sometimesI just prefer to look at one one pageinstead of like hundreds of differentresults. I prefer to just see a fewdifferent endpoints that are going to berelevant to the feature that I'mactually looking at at the moment.That's also something to consider. Iwould keep using the bookmark list, butI would switch to using Visual StudioCode for your actual JavaScript codeanalysis.Actually, locate that somewhere on theweb page, right? Hopefully, it'ssomewhere here. [snorts]Maybe like with device or something.Okay, I don't know why that's notfinding.Okay, I'm not sure why that's notfinding, but what would you do? What youwould do is just go in there. Maybelet's try something that's like UTF8,let's say.table search. Okay, there you go. Forexample, UTFA. You go here, you findwhere the source is, then you startreading the JavaScript. Fortunately,this is minified. Most programs will useminified JavaScript because it justtakes up less memory.But you can still read it. You candefinitely get used to reading minifiedJavaScript. It's just a bit of skillthat you have to build up. But then youcan try and search for vulnerabilitieslike that. That's one of the major bitsof recon you can do. And you can seehere that let's go back to thisopportunities page here. You can see mybookmarks. I have a GraphQL queryfinder. This will basically return allthe GraphQL queries from here. I have adon't even know what this does. I thinkthis returnsall this returns any stringconcatenations. So in JavaScript, youcan basically do like a thing where youhave a template literal and maybe I'llrun this. Yeah, sorry. This templateliteral fin. Yeah, that's what it is.This finds all the template literalstrings. So basically where variableshave been injected into strings. Thisjust helps me find client side pathtraversal vulnerabilities. So maybe youcould go in and try and test all thisfor path traversal vulnerabilities. Andthen the last thing is client side pathtraversal finder. It does somethingsimilar as the one on top, but thisbasically finds wherever strings areadded together with a plus.So this will tell me where two stringsare added just directly with an actuallike string concatenation. So withoutusing template literal but just usingthe pure concatenation. And yeah that'sthe tools that I run these custom toolsand I think they've really helped mestand out from the crowd in terms offinding recon and finding data. Sothat's one of the bigger things I wantyou to do. By the way, no pressure but Ihave some links in the description whichare to my labs. So, these are hands-onpractical labs that I've designed. Ifyou know my videos, I always use a liveexample to demonstrate the conceptsbecause I really believe in practicalknowledge over a kind of PowerPoint orsomething like that. Especially in bookbounty, you have to do do things. Youhave to actually do things yourself toactually get the idea and find thevulnerability on real applications. It'swhy I believe in labs as well. I'vedesigned my own labs based on usuallyvulnerabilities I've found myself orvulnerabilities that were found by otherbook bounty hunters that I've replicatedin the labs. They're really valuable.They're all online. You don't have todownload anything. They're basically inthe same format as my usual labs whereyou just go on a website and then youstart hacking it basically. And it'sjust more created. It's kind of moreprofessional instead of the usual likeyou know kind of the patch of labs thatI usually deliver on the YouTubechannel. So if you're interested in thatthen link in the description but nopressure on. Okay. So I ran my reax. Ihave my all my GraphQL queries. Nowthere's a lot of these GraphQL queriesthough and reading them would takeabsolute decades. You can see how do Isort out the actual kind of uselessGraphQL queries when the ones that weactually want to look at and what we canuse again is AI. So watch this. This isthis is one of the is one of these coolthings that I think I actually foundwhich is you come in here you save theactual web page as a HTML page. You saveit here. You go into Chad GBT right andyou say I'm I'm testing my websitefor vulnerabilities.These are all the GraphQLqueries on my website.What vulnerability should I test for?If you're looking to integrate more AIinto your workflow as a manual hacker,then I honestly think that at this pointthis is a must for you, which is Shiftagents or some kind of agentic AItesting system. What shift does isinstead of just telling you things thatyou should look for, what it willactually do is it will go and test ititself. Right? So if you click thisagent tab here, you can say test thisendpoint for cross-ite scripting andit's going to go and actually try allthe payloads for yourself. And what youcan then do is you can store yourprompts here. You can use differentmodels as well. You can store likeprompts. You can like add anotherprompt. You can add prompts fordifferent vulnerab. So maybe I'll saylike this is like race condition orwhatever. I can find like a prompt forrace condition and I can say like sendthis request in parallel or whatever.Burpuite has something similar with withburp AI which is something that I alsorecommend using but I have reallyenjoyed using shift agents for a while.Just using chat GPT is okay. Listen youcan go and ask chat GPT what should Itest for? But this is really like thenew meta at the moment. is basicallyjust putting this into like AI that'sactually going to do some of the workfor you. Because although Chad GPD cangenerate a lot of payloads for you, it'snice to have an AI that's going to testindividual payloads and then iterate onit itself, which is going to be supernice. In terms of creating somethinglike reax patterns or whatever, you canactually like feed a request into theAI. So you can say like generate a matchand replace or turn on this feature. Andin this case,what is going to happen is that it'sactually going to receive the entirerequest. So if you want to have context,you want to give the AI context based onsome kind of request, this is alsoreally nice to do. And those if you'relooking to integrate Chptd into yourmanual recall or like manual hackingstuff, I think this is also great and itcan also help to find some leads. Now,obviously, this isn't going to hackeverything for you. You're not justgoing to be able to say, you know, starthacking this website or whatever, andit's going to find you a lot ofvulnerabilities. What this is going tobe helpful for is whenever you have asituation where you suspect there's avulnerability, but you're not quite surehow to exploit it, or you need to try alot of different payloads, then this isreally going to be great. And obviously,it's just going to also save you sometime by creating your match andreplacements or whatever. And it'sreally honestly not that expensive. Iput about $40 into my like uh what's itcalled? Um like worth of credits intothe provider and I've used about like 30cents of it over like two weeks. Soreally, it's not expensive at all andit's also really useful. So if you'relooking to integrate AI into yourworkflow, then this is where it's at.And what GGBT will do is using the fileI give it, it will suggest things I canfind. So vulnerabilities I can find fromthose requests.And this is good because most people aregoing to try and sort it by hand. Butwe're going to use AI to identify thehighest priority requests that we needto look at. And it's going to suggestthat basically just a patternrecognition, right? And most of the timethe things that it will suggest will bethe highest priority. So instead ofwasting our time on some like randomlike you know change profile picturerequest that's not really going to havean effect right [clears throat] we'regoing to focus on the requests so theAPI endpoints that are going to give usthe real value and that's what I wantwhat I want you to you to actually focuson you can do this with all of your reaxwith the link finder you can do it aswell you can pipe straight into jbd andask it for vulnerabilities to find thisI think works the best with somethinglike graphql though but it can also workwith the client side patch traversal andyou can find it works with anything thatyou design yourself based on the programand experiences that you have personallybuilt up. I've just asked HGP tobasically read this file now and this iswhat it's saying. So we look for brokenaccess control privilege escalationlooking for private objects and thenit's basically giving me the query andtelling me to basically try and look forsome kind of privilege escalation. Ihave mutation authorization bypass. Sobasically looking for mutations seeingif we can do basically same kind ofbroken access control or injecting somekind of uh introspection exposure maybetry introspection that's another thingyou can use or for example injection sointo string markdown or LLM prompt seeit's identified everything from theactual content and the ideal thing youcan actually do is you can modify thisprompt I've just done this prompt as anexample but really I would build up amuch more complicated prompt so forexample will say give me like ready togo curl request that I can just straightaway fire in like and you can dosomething like that. You can do you canask it to give examples from the actualdocument. I just haven't. But it's justit's giving me some examples anyway. Butif you want specific like you don't wantkind of waffle, you can give it you tellit to give specific examplesand injection DOS file attachments.Yeah, you can go straight testing all ofthese things. And I think the mosttime-saving way that you can starttesting the endpoints is by just pipingthe information directly into AI. Youcan even try Claude. Although I thinkChajbd is actually better for hackingbecause Claude is a bit [ __ ] and itdoesn't like want to give you uhvulnerabilities. So I really preferusing charg but you can definitely tryout the other AIS as well. And yeah,that's really what you want to do onceyou have your read to reax you want topipe it into AI and then you want tobasically examine those vulnerabilities.So that's where the real hacking begins.This is this is where recon ends andthen the real hacking begins now wherewe're testing actual vulnerabilitiesnow. So this is all our recon done now.So, what else can we do for recon? Well,some people also like using the waybackmachine. The wayback machine allows youto see old versions of the website. So,we could allow you to see old APIendpoints. So, if we go like, let's sayhacker onehere,we'd go in, we'd find hacker one. Wefind hacker one as well. And we'd say wefind like um we go back like three yearsin time, see what the API endpoints looklike now and then test them again. Maybepipe them into chargesbetween the current API endpoints andthe old a and the new API end sorry wecan find differences between the new APIendpoints and the old API endpoints.Once again we can probably use AI forthat because it's just a timeconumingtask but it's something that you canuse. Guess this is loaded up. You can golike researchersopportunities.Maybe we can go back in time to like2023. This might not load up thoughbecause since this is an old old umendpoint and it's using older APIs, itmight not work with the new API. So itmight just like the API endpointsprobably won't work. But even if the APIdoesn't work, note that the JavaScriptis still there. Right? If you see thisspinning wheel, that means theJavaScript loaded, that means there'snothing stopping us from going here,running our GraphQL query finder, andjust doing basically the same thing aswe did before, right? So, finding this,piping it into CHP, and then comparingit with the results that we found here.So, that's not stopping us at all.That's one way you can use the waybackmachine. You can also use it to findsecrets, hardcoded secrets. companiessometimes put like API keys intoJavaScript by mistake. That's you can docan do a bit of recon on them. But themain thing is to identify older APIendpoints. The last bit of recon that Iusually end up doing is just actuallyreading the documentation that thewebsite gives us. So if you just GoogleAPI oops hacker one going to go here andit's going to give us some kind ofdocumentation. Nowadays almost everyplatform will have some kind ofdocumentation whether it's hacker onedeliveroo or I don't know [ __ ] USdepartment of intelligence they'll goingto have like API documentations now justbecause most websites use integrationsand stuff like that it's just better forthe internet that way and withdocumentation it's going to give us alot of intelligence on what the apiendpoints are for instead of doing likerandom parameter fuzzing most of thetime you can just go here go into likeresources something like that and youcan just like find API endpoint here andit's just going to give you the like thethe parameters that are accepted. Nowthat doesn't mean that more parametersactually aren't accepted, right? So ifthis API endpoint like this APIdocumentation tells us that theseparameters are accepted than theyprobably will be, but that doesn't meanthat there's not more accepted.Sometimes companies will allow moreparameters in like by accident maybe,which is going to lead tovulnerabilities. So that's wheresomething like parameter mining is goingto come in. But normally this is goingto just make our life easier becauseit's going to tell us how we canactually use the API endpoint with thecurl. So instead of getting tragic to dothis, we can just go here and use itourselves. Usually it's going to requiresome kind of API token which you can getfrom logging into the platform. Itshouldn't be too hard. And with that youcan test like all of these APIendpoints. You can actually pipe thisinto charging PSL if you want to and youcan ask which of these will be the bestto test out and stuff like web hooks.you know there's a decent bit ofvulnerabilities and things like this. Umwhat else we have like use casessometimes like resources you canobviously get like privilege escalationsID doors are a big thing here if youhave someone like uploading files whichmaybe it's somewhere here like assetsyeah importing files uploading files andyou can start having like S3misconfigurations which I've talkedabout previously in the channels there'sa lot of really great vulnerabilitiesthat you can look for in these APIdocumentations that's why I always takea look at this because it can give me asense of where I should go next, whatvulnerabilities I should attack, andwhich vulnerabilities I can attack thatactually suit my hacking style as well.So, that's really good. And yeah, Ithink that's most of the recon that Ido. It's just going to run down torunning the reax, running it with GPT,getting some idea of where to go next,getting some features to test on,[music] and then reading the APIdocumentation to basically try and findout what I should do. Sometimes whatwill actually happen here is that in theAPI documentation there'll be an AI aswell. So sometimes you can actually askthe AI like what whether there's like aparameter somewhere if you want to askit like can I do something then you cando that. So I can clarify some thingsfor you to help you find like businesslogic error vulnerabilities whichthey're not like technicalvulnerabilities but they're kind of likeassumptions that developers made thekind of cool vulnerabilities. Right. So,here I have my demo example, and this isjust a very simple blog website that Imay or may not have stolen off theinternet, but we're just going to useit. I've coded in a few vulnerabilitieshere, so we should be able to have alook at them, and you can actuallyfollow along with this. Uh there's thelink for this should be in thedescription. The website is up on apublic domain, so you should have noproblem accessing this. It's built inExpressJS, so nothing really crazythere. So I really encourage you tofollow along actually and try and findthese vulnerabilities yourself. And ifyou get stuck then you can watch thisvideo later.So what the feature centric approachcenters around is trying to identifysmaller components before we dive intoactually testing these massive features.So once you've picked a subdomain thatyou consider to be a valid target likethis uh app.jacob Jacob Jen uh bookbounty domain. Then we're going to hopin and start identifying features herethat we can test on.So most websites actually have a lotmore features than people think. So ifyou look at this login feature, thenthat's going to be a feature by itself,but so is the registration feature,right? And each of those is going tohave a different flow to it. And each ofthem can have very seriousvulnerabilities. So we shouldn't weshouldn't uh discount any features likefor example signing up because if wesign up then we might be able tooverride other users or access yourdetails as well. So every feature isworth looking at and the features thatare often most overlooked actuallysometimes carry the most criticalvulnerabilities.So definitely it's worth analyzing allof them extensivelyand the way we're going to do that isusing a HTTP proxy. So hopefully youhave one which is either going to beBurpuite or Kaido. And if you don't haveone then I've made a video about how toset them up. So go watch that or any ofthe other tutorials online. But beforewe actually start hacking or actuallylooking at any of the features, we wantto actually set up a few accountsbecause to actually to actually unlocksome of the features, you'll need to goa few extra steps. So the number onestep is obviously just going to beregistering to the website and actuallycreating an account. And what I like todo is actually create two at the sametime so I can test things like idors andprivilege escalation. So I havesomething here called uh I think this iscalled Firefox containers something likethat. But basically uh I can justhop in here and I can basically open uptwo containers and this is going toseparate my cookies on each of these uhplatforms which means that I can havetwo different accounts open. If you'regoing to lean very heavily into testingauthorization, so things like idors andbroken access control, I woulddefinitely recommend you to get a pluginto actually test this for you passively.And this is just going to speed up yourprocess a lot rather than having to goin and change the cookies every time.You can just kind of passively use theapp while testing for things like doors.And the way you're going to do that isI've just done this on Kaido, butthere's also a really similar plugin onBYU, which basically does the samething. You're going to like see how theapplication authorizes each user. Andthen you're just going to come in here.You're going to like add a cookie sayyou're going tohave one user which is going to be likeyour admin user. have one user who'swhich is going to be like yoursay your like um normal user. Okay, thatwas supposed to be a hookie or whatever.And then you're going to come in here.You're going to turn on your passivescanning. And then as you're using theapplication, the authorized plugin isgoing to be actually testing the thingsfor you. And it's it's going to be doingthis for API requests as well as can geta little bit annoying and there's a lotof configuration for this. You're goingto want to probably not have thisrunning for every single endpoint. Butthis can also speed up your process alot. And I do recommend using pluginsfor something like this. I'm not areally like aggressiveidler hunter or I don't reallyspecialize in that area. So I don'treally use a lot of these pluginsmyself. However, if you are going to dothat, if you're a beginner and it's oneof the only things that you can reallylook for, then I would recommend atleast getting a plug-in for this, right?It's just going to save you a lot ofwork. And in the end, that that's goingto help you find idors that other peopleare missing just because if other peopleare wasting time doing stuff like this,then you might as well not be and thenyou're going to find more books, right?If you're going to lean into doing likethe two user thing like having the userand the admin and you're going to testlike every feature for an idor andyou're going to go over and make likeyour Excel spreadsheet then at least forthe love of god have this pluginactually helping you out as well.There's one more in kaid though I knowthat allows you to quickly switchbetweenyour users insideactual request which could be very handyas well. Honestly, that that's probablyeven useful if you're not doing theall the like what's it called the idlerstuff I think. Yeah, this is calledautoify which is going to basically putlike two buttons on like your requestpage. Like here you have like a requestpage. It's going to add two buttons hereto switch between your user and adminand it's going to let you do that veryseamlessly. But honestly, that'sprobably worth getting as well. I don'thappen to be using that one at themoment. But yeah, do use plugins to makeyour life easier, please, because thenyou're going to be finding more idors. Ithink this also works as an extension inBurpsweet where you can have like yourrequests colored, which is pretty nice.So,I'm just going to create those twoaccounts now. And maybe make thatpassword a little bit simpler.Like so.sampleI will sayagain to Gmail2 3 4.5 6 already registered apparentfive sure [laughter]okay we have two accounts now set up seethat we've immediately unlocked a lotmore features so if I was to kind ofwrite down everything that I can test onthis website what I would say is we canprobably test this profile, check theemail. We can test these blogs here. Wecan test creating a new blog. We cantest this log out feature to see if thesession cook gets removed. We can testsigning up to see if if we can sign upas an existing user or uh potentiallylike a pre-account takeover and testobviously logging in. So, there's a lotto test on this website and instead oflooking at them at once, we're going toanalyze them individually. So startingoff with creating this blog, right?So different features will probably havedifferent vulnerabilities associatedwith associated with them. So like a webhook feature might associated withsomething like SSRF while creatingsomething like using an API might havemore like door type vulnerabilities.So the way I would start doing this isto basicallyjust use the website normally butinclude some payloads in here. Soincluding payloads like uh XSS is a bigone and then another one is somethinglike serverside template injection whichis less seen nowadays to be honest. So Iwould probably focus on the uh cross-itescripting payloads and what I wouldalways do is try and get the workflow.So features can have more than onerequest and they often have more thanone. For example, signing up might belikeuh basically sending a request to anauthorization domain. That authorizationdomain might send a request back like asingle sign on feature. So there's athere's uh there's different um there'smany HTTP requests that can be lookedat. And when we're looking at features,we're going to look at all of themtogether. So I'm just going to send thiscreate the block thing to the uh HTTPrequest. And I think in this case, it'sjust going to be one request. Yeah, it'sgoing to be run request.So that's basically going to be thefeature that we're going to look atright now. It's just going to becreating the blog and seeing whathappens. So we've included our payload.You can see this creator ID here. Sothat potentially will point to an IDORM.We also want to have a look at for CSRFin this case. Uh it's a JSON responsetype and it doesn't seem like there'sheaders. So I don't think we'll be ableto execute a CSRF here either. And interms of authorization, we have a JWTtoken which is normally fairly secure aswell. So I think the main twovulnerabilities that we want to test forin this feature is going to be to lookfor the door which we're going to testfor in a minute and cross- sitescripting.So let's see if anything fired. And Ithink we managed to get a HTML injectionhere. Yeah. So it seemed like we wereable to inject the HTML tag here.So that's good. Now, as well as that, Iwant to test for the IDOR. So the way Iwould do that is on my second account, Iwould come hereand I would basically try and create ablog as well here. Oops, I didn't meanto do that.Okay, let's go a new blog. Let's go blogtitle.And then I want to do this and we'll saysomething five.Submit it. And then I would just copythis it here. Can even forward thatactually.So if we for example insert that hereand then just call it likeum ID door.So see like it went through correctly.And if we stop intercepting there wehave ID door.AndI think I I was doing that on thisaccount, was I?I'm a bit lost now. What does the JWTsay? So now I kind of want to properlytest for this door. So hopefully we'regoing to keep track of which user IDsare actually the correct ones this time.So we'll go like that. I'm just going todelete all of theseand we're going to keep this on the blueprofile. So we're going to keep thisrequest on the blue profile which hasthis email and we're going to see if wecan make an id door to have the blogcreated on a different email than ourown. So we'll just say I door say like 12 3 1 2 3 submit it. And we'll send thatin again here. So that's the blue iconthere. And we'll do the same thing onthis side. So we'll go new blog.We'll gointercept to here and then we'll saysomething like test one two three onetwo threeand then we submit it as well and thenwe'll just copy throughuh this here and then we'll just drop itright there. Now we're going to test forthis id door. We're going to see if wecan createone there on a different profile. And ifwe go here we see that I door has poppedup. So we just cancel the requestandyeah it's been created on the otherprofile. So we have an id door where wecan uh create a blog for a differentperson and then we also have cross-itescripting it seems.So that's good. So from that feature wemanaged to extract two vulnerabilities.You can see I've looked at this featureindividually right. So I've looked atthis just one HTTP request and I'veconsidered several vulnerability types.I'm not just looking for onevulnerability type, right? I'm not justlooking for an IDOR. What I'm doing isI'm analyzing the feature and I'mconsidering different vulnerabilitiesthat might arise from it. I think somepeople say that you should just focus onone vulnerability. I'm not really anadvocate of that actually. I think youshould focus on specific features thatyou've tested before because when you dothat, you'll be able to see the patternsand see the mistakes that developers doand pick them out more frequently. Couldsay the same thing for something like anIT door. But I think because websitesare so different and an IDOR couldliterally be like anything. It could bea vulnerability in like any system. So Ithink looking at these features willactually develop your patterns fasterthan just looking for specificvulnerability types.So that's what we've done from the blogrequest feature, right? So creating ablog, that's the first feature that Iwanted to analyze. And the secondfeature, for example, let's say, isediting our profile.So same thing here, we're going to stopthis here. We're going to say,example, testing whether or not we canuh change someone else's email, forexample. That's something that couldarise from these vulnerabilities.Um, sometimes you might be able tobypass something called emailverification where you'll get like acode in your email or something likethat. You might be able to bypassum, basically having to give that codeand you can basically say your email towhatever you want to, which in somewebsites is a very severe vulnerability.So, we're just going to have a look atwhat this request for this feature lookslike.So, we've done here. I'm going to sendit to the repeater as always. So, sendit here.And what can we say about this request?Well, it's in uh URL mode. So, it's URLencoded. Um potentially CSRF, but itdoes have the password here. So, I don'tthink we'll be able to execute a CSRFjust because the password is here.Unless you can get rid of the password,it still works, which we'll test in aminute. So the cookies are as normal. Uhthere's no particularly interestingheaders on the other side.And it seems like this is the onlyrequest for this feature because it'sjust redirecting us to profile afterthis. So what could we test for here? Wecould test for something like emailvalidation. Maybe we can try a racecondition as well.So has this actually made a change to myname? It seems like it actually has. So,wonder if we can do something like this.Maybe if we try and change the sameemail.Does that work?It doesn't appear to have really doneanything. Maybe we can likeuh not include the password in here andchange the email to something else likethis.But did this work? Wonder.Okay. Did not seem to have workedeither. So, I don't think we'll be ableto change another user's passwordbecauseumwe'd have to know what their what theirso we wouldn't be able to change theiremail because we don't really know whattheir password is. So, unless we wereable to likeumbasically likeuse our own password and then changetheir email like that. But I do notthink that's going to happen either. Wecan give it a try though. Maybe we'llsay something like this. say password islike one or something. We'll change theemail to email that we know and thenwe'll refresh it hereand go to profile and that doesn't seemto have worked. This feature seemsfairly secure because it requires yourpassword although it is beingtransmitted in plain text. So, it'sdubious whether or not that's actuallysafe. But,uh, yeah, that's basically the featurethere. And it doesn't seem like there'sanything and I think I've considered allthe possibilities here. So, sometimesthis will happen where you're going tobe testing a feature and you're justgoing to find nothing because thefeature is fairly secure. It's not likea book bounty lab. You know, noteverything's going to be vulnerable. Andin this case, I don't think this isvulnerable. It's not really giving meany indication of that. But that's okaybecause we're going to go back to ourfeature ccentric methodology. So wefinished testing this feature. Haven'tfound any vulnerabilities. That's okay.Maybe we'll just move on to anotherfeature. Right. So we've found thesefeatures here. We've been able to createblogs. We seem that there's XSS there.There's an id there. Um what else? Sowe've tried creating a new blog. We wentto the profile here.Um, let's maybe have a look at trying tosign out of this or log out. What doesthat request look like? So, we just senda request here.And it seems like all it does is justset our cookie to nothing. Does itinvalidate the cookie? I wonder like amI still able to use it here? Uh, forexample, if we were togo back here and then I imagine yes,because this is a JWT token. So,normally you're able to use them evenafter even after they're used, but wecan just check that here.So, if we It seems like we logged backin. So, potentially sessions aren'tbeing invalidated correctly. And thisJWT usually has an expiration token.So, we'll have a look here. Yeah, itseems like it it'll expire here. Likethis is Unix time. So, we could test ifit actually expires or not. possiblycould just wait for this time to happenand then see if it expires. That's couldbe another vulnerability logout featureas well. But apart from that, I'm notseeing anyumany other vulnerabilities in the logoutfeature. It seems like that's fairlysecure.So, what's left for us now? Well, nowall that's left is to test it login andregistration feature. I think I'm goingto leave that to you, though. I'm goingmight add a few more features here whenyou're testing it. So, I'll probablyprobably uh make this website a bit moreadvanced like comments and stuff likethat so you can test on it. But before Igo, I just want to say that I actuallyhave bulk bounty labs in thedescription. They're kind of like thisstyle like what I'm showing you rightnow. It's where you can go in and uhbasically try out to find bugs yourself.And I include solutions in thedescriptions.So yeah, if you want to get more of thepractical side in, then that's a reallygood option for you. Here I'm justtalking about the theory. Of course,you're not really actually doinganything unless you're obviously goingto the website here and you're testingyourself. But if you're just watching,you're not actually getting like thepractical side in. And I think my bookbounty labs are actually great for thatbecause they'll give you the skillsnecessary to actually find theseproblems yourself. All right, noPowerPoint today. We're just going to gostraight into a bit of Visual Studio,the way it's supposed to be. If youhaven't watched my video onunderstanding HTML, then please watchit. you'll be completely confused if youdon't know how to read HTMLcuz JavaScript is kind of the next stepup. And anyway, what the hell is clientside JavaScript? Client side JavaScriptwhen people refer to it means that it'sbeing executed inside the browser. Sohere it's being executed on the user'scomputer and it's not being executed onthe server. Right? Nowadays there'sJavaScript frameworks which work allwhich work on the browser as well likeJavaScript works on the browser. Butthen you can also run it on the serverlike things like no NodeJS and stufflike that for example. These aredifferent because they don't have a lotof the same restrictions as client sideJavaScript does and they're not reallyparsed the same way. They have differentfunctions as well and they're actuallyvery different from each other. So whatyou need to understand is client sideJavaScript runs on the user's browser.Server side JavaScript when we'retalking about stuff like Node.js JS willrun on the actual like cloud will run onthe server and it's not constrained thesame way that client side JavaScript isbecause it's not running in a browserand it's running on like a a differentenvironment. Right now that you knowthat let's have a look at this HTMLform. Whenever we're writing HTML we'realways going to be using client sideJavaScript and not server sideJavaScript.So where is it JavaScript? Don't see ithere. Well, it's actually not reallypracticed anymore that people will writeJavaScript inside the HTML itself.They'll actually usually import it fromfrom a different script.So, this is the way you see I have itimported as script.js.We go here. This is the JavaScript,right? So, it's basically automaticallyimporting it for us. It's the same aswriting like a script tag in here. Youknow, it's the same as writing a scripttag and then writing all that. Butinstead of doing that inside the samefile just to make it look a bit cleaner,people have shifted it away to adifferent file. You can do the samething with with um CSS as well.Basically just shifting it off into adifferent file. I think with CSS use ameta tag for or sorry use a style tag Ithink to import it. And instead forJavaScript we import it with a scriptfile. And we can set the script sourcehere. The script source will point tothe location that the JavaScript file isat. Okay, phenomenal. Let's have a lookat this JavaScript file, right?How do we write JavaScript? How do weactuallyperform stuff on behalf on on thewebsite? Like the way we usually do itis first of all, we need to find theelements that we want to actually modifyor like listen to. And the way weusually do that is right here is byfinding its ID parameter. So, we want tolike find a button or something likethat. I think I spelled button wrongthere. Oops. Just write that there. Sowe have something like this. We havebutton fetch and we'll just get it bythe ID. The ID is something that weinclude from the HTML.Like see you can see this button here.So button fetch. You can see the ID andthen we can just get it in JavaScript.This just allows us to actually get alook at it. And then whenever we want todo something to it, we can just pressthis thing. For example, if you want toadd HTML to it, we can do it like this.Or if we want to add a function to it,we can listen to an event. We can dowhat is it? What like? Oh, add eventlisten. We can do add event listen.Yeah. And then we can just add whateverevent we want to. You see there's a lotof them. Basically, there's a lot ofstuff we can listen to. If someone likehovers over the button, we can dosomething. We can like go to a function.This could be good if you want to likemake the button look nice or make somekind of animation play. You can do thatwith CSS obviously as well, but that'san option for you. One thing you mightnotice is that JavaScript doesn't havetypes. It's not a typed language bydefault. We have either constant. Soconst is something that you can'tchange. So once I define it, it's notchangeable. Or you can have like a letones like a let is something that we canchange. It's like a variable. You canalso have var, which is another one. Inever use that though. I just use thosetwo.Yeah, that's the main two things. That'show we define variables. They're nottyped. So it's not like you know youcall like Java, Java will have like insand strings stuff like that. JavaScriptwon't. That's why they're actually twovery different languages. Don't don'tget them confused. Java and JavaScripttwo different languages. There isactually another language calledTypeScript which is kind of a Microsoftpatch to this because they wanted toactually add types into it. And the wayTypeScript works is you like type likeenter something here like next to it andinstead of that you'll have types inJavaScript. But by default it doesn'thave any types. So we declare variables.They're just like this. So that was aquick overview of some of the stuff youcan do with JavaScript. Now how do wehack JavaScript? What do we actuallywant to look for whenever we read them?Whenever we do any code review, we lookfor two things. We look for sources andwe look for syncs. Sources are whereuser input will enter the code and startlike flowing through it, right? and async is where that that code will beexecuted and do something.In the case of client side JavaScript,the main vulnerability type people lookfor is cross-sight scripting. And that'sa way to execute JavaScript code on theuser's website based on some kind ofuser input that we control. The reasonthis is bad is because throughJavaScript, we can do stuff like stufflike reach API endpoints with the user'scookies and credentials.That means that if we were able to docross-ite scripting on a website, wecould have the user perform an actionsthey did intend to. You see here thisfetch request, right? This fetch requestcan go up to like an API or somethinglike that. And we're including thecredentials. If the user clicks on thewebsite and we have cross-ite scripting,which means that we can executeJavaScript on behalf of the user, thenwe will be able to run that API endpointand the user will won't know. This couldbe like a delete account endpoint. Sowhen the user basically gets affected byour cross-ite scripting, we can likedelete their account without them evenknowing, which is obviously prettyserious.So websites want to prevent cross-itescripting. There's a couple ways to dothis. And the first way is to basicallylook at the sources and syncs and thenmake sure that user input is not beingfed into a sync it's not being executed.Let's look at the first sync that I'vejust created here which is the sync withparameters. So this is a very commonsync. It's where a parameter so a searchparameter query parameter is taken fromhere this JS parameter and is then fedinto some kind of execution later downthe line. In this case, I'm using theeval function. The eval function willtake a string and evaluate it asJavaScript.That's obviously pretty good cross-itescripting potential there.And whenever we put this JavaScriptparameter, we can do some like alert.The alert will pop up. Cool. That seemslike a cross-ite scriptingvulnerability. Nice. How do we exploitit? What we would do is we would send alink a link to a a victim and we put ourcross-ite scripting payload here. Forexample, a thing that would like a fetchrequest that will automatically submitan API when the user clicks on it. Thenwhen the user clicks on it, theparameter will be fed into theevaluation and then the JavaScript willbe executed. That's how thisvulnerability will work whenever weattack it. This is called DOM cross-itescripting. So DOM is the stuff that hereand it's different for normal cross-itescripting because it actually runs onthe client instead of on the server.Normally cross-ite scripting is wherelike the server will append [snorts]like a tag onto the server when it'srendering it onto sorry the web pagewhen it's rendering it then it'll belike cross-ite script in there rightinstead of that this is actuallyexecuted in the in the JavaScript here.So it's not anything server related. Itonly runs inside the client. That'sactually very popular nowadays becausemost most websites use client siderendering now. Do stuff like React andVue.js. It's rare that you'll see like aPHP website anymore with server siderendering. So more DOMXS type stuff isactually become more and more popular.But crossite scripting isn't the onlyvulnerability we can find throughJavaScript. There's a couple more ofthem. And for example, there's somethinglike CSRF. CSRF cross request for adream is a vulnerability I coveredbefore. So if you don't know what it isthen please go watch that video. But inshort is it basically just a way tobasically do the same thing as crossitescripting. So run some kind of APIendpoints on the user's behalf.Just it's a little bit different that wedon't actually execute JavaScript to doit but we kind of manipulate someendpoint to do it. Right. Let's take alook at this code here. Right. Read it.Maybe take a second. See if you can spotwhere the vulnerability is. See how canwe let's say there's an API input no APIinput like v1 slash delete maybe likeAPI slash user API/ delete like say saysay say say say say say say say say saysay say say say say say say say say saythis one rightsay this endpoint will allow us todelete an account so this is somethingthat user press when they want to deletetheir account how could we exploit it sothat we we can type in this ID and it'llinstead go to this endpoint here.The way we can actually go and hit thisother API endpoint by manipulating thisprompt is by using a path traversal.Basically, a path traversal is where weput these kind of strings here. Oops.where we can put this kind of symbolhere and whenever we have like somethinglike another path like vapi1it'll actually go it'll actuallynormalize the path and go back to theprevious one. So patch is just a way ofbasically going backward paths. Andthere's another one like this which juststays in the same one. It's kind ofuseless to [snorts] us anyway. The mostimportant one is this which will go backa path. And then after that we can putanother endpoint like this. And once itnormalizes the path we'll be oops we'llbe at a different endpoint.And this is normally attacked from theserver and it has been for a good coupleof years. Let's say a server wasfetching a file from some kind ofdirectory and what it was using it wasusing like the name of the file. So it'slike file name here, file name here. Ifwe could control that file name, what wecould do is you could go back thedirectory. So we could set the file nameto something like dot dot slash do slashand then we would go back to the rootdirectory and read files from there.Usually we would read like etc/.We can kind of do the same thing fromthe client side using client sideJavaScript. And this is called clientside path reversal. I made a video on aswell. It's a pretty cool one. But thisis we'll have a look on the JavaScriptcode. Now I can't actually exploit thisvulnerability in my browser because I'mrunning this from a file and this isprotected by cores and stuff like that.And if it's not HTTP, it'll kind ofbreak a little bit. But I can just showyou here. I go to fetch URL. I inputdo/deletelike so. And I press okay. You can seeit'll disallow reading the resourceendpoint at at the exact end point thatwe wanted to. So this was on a realwebsite then we could execute thisclient side patch reversal and when theuser clicks on it thenthat would basically happen. It'sunlikely this would be like a prompteven though this is not used but this isactually not exploitable anyway becausewe'd have to get the user to type thisin which is unlikely. What it wouldusually be is like for example it'lltake like window.loation locationand then it will get like the last one,right? So it'll say like path name andthen it'll get like the last path namebasically cuz in the stringwhat it will usually be is like when youhave like an ID parameter it'll havelike 1 2 3 4 5 it'll take that and thenput it into a different API endpointjust the last parameter. And what we cando is you can put the dot dot slash herejust in a URL encoded way instead. Solike this and then this when this willbe decoded hopefully by the server hereit'll be placed into the string and thenit'll it'll make the path reversal.That's how you can exploit somethinglike client side path reversaland we can get a CSR type vulnerability.So something else to look out forwhenever you're actually reading yourJavaScript and this is just another kindof sync. The sync in this case is thetemplate literal. One of the otherattack vectors to keep in mind whenlooking at client side path reversals isactually cross origin redirects with anopen redirect inside an API. Just toexplain that a little bit clearer, ifyou have a fetch request coming fromlet's say www.agample.com,right? And it's an API sitting atapi.agample.com,right? That's where most of the useractions will be performed. And the wwwdomain is just like the UI mainly,right?When the www domain makes a fetchrequest to the API domain, it'll usuallyinclude an authorization header. Let'ssay that's how the website authorauthorizes you. It's with theauthorization header and they have likean API token in there, right? That'slike the way that you're going to beable to access your API. One of thethings you can do is if the APIuh subdomain has an open redirect in itif the user can be manipulated with aclient side patch reversal. So if youhave a client side path reversal on thatfetch request from www to the API andthen you also find an open redirect youmight be able to leak this authorizationheader and then basicallyget the user's API token which isbasically the the maximal possibleimpact you can have from a client sidevulnerability that's basically just likecomplete account takeover right theideal scenario is like oneclick accounttakeover right the user clicks like yourlink with a client a patch reversal andthen they get redirected to this APIsubdomain and then the API subdomain hasan open redirect to a differentsubdomain that you control which then wecan leak the authorization header andone thing to keep in mind is that somebrowsers will actually block this. Insome browsers the authorization headerwill not bewill not carry over in cross originredirect. Remember, an origin isbasically the subdomain. So, it's it'sactually even different from just anormal domain, right? So,www.agample.comis a different origin fromapi.agample.com. So, just keep that onein mind as well. And you can see likethe biggest one I think that does thisis Firefox and Safari are the two biggerones that block this behavior. Although,for some reason, this is still allowedin Chrome apparently. I actually didn'tknow that. Apparently, it doesn't evensupport that at all, which isinteresting. I actually thought theydid. Maybe I'll have to re read aboutthat as well. Either way, thisauthorization header does add a littlebit of protection to developers fromclient side patch reversals. But ifChrome doesn't doesn't support this,then I think this is still reportableeven if it doesn't work on Firefox. And[snorts] if the application is usingsome like X authorization header, thenthere's basically no no safety there forany any kind of client side patchreversals. But if you do find a clientside patch reversal, then just keep inmind as well it's worth looking for theCSRF as well. But for maximal impact,leaking the author authorization headeror some kind of API key would beamazing. that in mind if the client sidepatch reversal is going to a differentdomain or even on even on the samedomain and then you find an openredirect there then you can maximizeyour impact by leaking the API token.Next thing that I want to talk about ispost message and this is another thingthat I think is very underrated by mostpeople. A post message is kind ofconfusing, but it's a way fora website, so the main website to talkto an I frame which is inside of theactual website.Remember in my HTML video, I talkedabout iframes. There you go. And it'sactually a way to include or embedanother website inside an alreadyexisting website. Instead of opening anew tab with the website, we can justembed it inside our own website. In thiscase, the iframe is here.Why would we want to do this? It's goodfor stuff like widgets, for example,like notification pop-ups or somethinglike that because instead of loading itonto our own website, we can just createit once and then load it like a load oftimes from different websites. And thatjust saves us a lot of development workfirst of all, and it's also quiteefficient.That's why we might want to use iframesin order to embed stuff into our ownwebsite. But these iframes, they can'tjust talk to each other like normally.Why can't websites just why can't aniframe just like basically be part ofthe website? Well, if someone went ifyou clicked on a malicious website andthey say embedded your bank account ontotheir website, which they can do with aniframe.Since they've done that, the websitewill load with your cookies and stufflike that. If they could just accessyour the website, they could read likeyour personal details off, right? So, weneed to prevent that from happening. Weneed to prevent the attacker websitebeing able to like read your personaldetails from an embedded website. That'swhere the same origin policy comes in,which also applies to iframes.So, you can't read you can't read datafrom inside an iframe unless you're inthe same origin, which means the samelike what's called um like host in here.Basically,unless you meet that requirement, youcan't read stuff from and you can't likesend like requests or anything likethat. You can never read cookiesbasically as well. That's basically therequirements that are set by the sameorder policy and it's to protect yourdetails from being stolen by attackersand it's a very good thing. What if youneed to do it though? Let's say you havea widget. You've loaded it in and youneed to send data to it which is quitenormal. Like say you had a widget and onthe side of website and it said likewelcome and it's like your username.But the widget has to know your usernamebut the username is only known by thewebsite, right? So we need a way to passyour username into the widget. forexample.And the way we do that is usingsomething called post message. It's kindof like HTTP light just for iframes.It's very funny. We can send a messageto the iframe and the iframe can chooseto receive it and then process it andthen it can send a response back to us.Let's see here. When the user clicks abutton like here, this is an alternativeway to write the uh thing about theevent listener just like this. So whenthe user clicks a button, we're going toget an iframe with ID child. Let's goback here. So here's the iframe and it'sjust loading in widget.html.It's going to get that and then it'sgoing to send a message and it's goingto send a little bit of HTML to it,right?And then later on it's going to wait foran event from a message and then it'sjust going to log it into the console.So this here is how we can listen topost messages and this here is how wesend post messages. Let's go to widgetand here I've just written it into thescript just to be a little bit safer andwe have the same thing. It's listeningto a post message.It's putting the notes inside inner HTMLand then it's sending a response back tous. So this is the kind of two-waycommunication, right? Instead of likeactually doing this from the top websitewhich we can't do, we've sent theinformation down to the widget which isthen going to process it and then it'sgoing to do stuff with them. That'sphenomenal.There's a bit of an issue here thoughand there's a few security concerns thatcome with post messages. The anyone canopen an iframe, right? So I can iframethis widget myself if I wanted to and ifthe widget contains some kind ofsensitive data already and I send a postmessage to it. If it just yeets up thesensitive information without checkingif the origin above it is actuallyauthorized to see it, it could leak youruser data.And they've done a a few patches toactually prevent this from happening. Ididn't really explain this little starthing. The star thing is actually is away to specify what origin we will allowthis post message to go to. All of thesepost message things were happening. theywere vulnerabilities were happeningbecause people weren't checking theorigin. So they added this in and thisstar means that any origin is allowedand it's generally it's it's generallyfrowned upon to use this insideproduction unless it's absolutelynecessary to sometimes you have to useit if you have like multiple originsusing it.But what we can do is we can specifydifferent like domains inside here andthis will prevent some kind ofvulnerabilities. The other way we can doit is by checking the actual source ofthe event here. So we can check thismanually by doing like origin and we cancheck him and we can use that source.Source I think is a bit more secure thanorigin. Origin can be kind ofmanipulated a little bit by usingsandbox iframes. So source is generallymore reliable. Another thing is that ifwe can pass data into the post messageand it handles it in securely bytrusting the source that's sending it.Well thenthen we can basicallywe can actually find the sync inside thepost message and then executecrosscripting there as well. So you seethis inner HTML page this inner HTML isanother sync and this will just inject astring straight into the HTML and itwill parse it as if it's HTML.So if you put like a script inside ofit, it will parse it as a script andthen the rest of it will parse aJavaScript allowing us to get a post andwe get a crossite scriptingvulnerability. And this is one of thebigger things actually it's in our HTMLand I think it's quite it's quiteinsecure to use this anyway. So you wantto be make sure that the data that'sbeing passed into this is safe. It'sdefinitely going to be trusted.Sometimes you really need to use thisfor a variety of reasons.So that's what will allow us to send apost message. And the same thing appliesobviously on the on the top leveldomain. It's also able to receive postmessages. Remember that I can also Iframe this domain. So it's not just likea top level domain. I can frame this andthen send a post message to this. Sothis is doing if it's handling thisinsecurity trusting its frame like thischildframe. I can frame this as well ifI want to and then send post messages toit.So you really have to be careful whenyou're actually receiving thesemessages.So in this case, we'll just test outwhat this has going to do. I'm going toclick this post message button. You cansee this was sent with post message,which is what I sent. And then you cansee the actual HTML here, which isreflect on the page. I have this toolcalled post message tracker, which showsme whenever post messages are sent. Andthis is the data that gets sent from thetop level iframe and then the bottomlevel iframe sent data as well. What'scool about this tool as well is that itallows you to see where the postmessages are actually being tracked. Soyou can see this function here is theone inside the iframe. And this one isjust is just this thing here, right? Soit just allows me to see it at a glanceand it allows me to see it withoutbasically just looking through all theall the JavaScript which is nice. So howcan we exploit this? This is insecurebecause it's passing HTML directly. It'snot checking the origin. So this uh thiswidget here isn't verifying the originand it's just directly yielding it intoinner HTML. There's obviously nosensitive data here on this widget, butif there was, then we could execute somekind of cross-ite scripting. So howwould we execute this? Well, the thesimplest way is just to make our ownlittle HTML page here. We'll just createour own little exploit. We'll say HTMLjust define a few things. body and thenwe want to make a script background.So what we want to do is we want to Iframe the widgetgoing here. We want to declare an Iframeiframe like thisI frame with the source beingwidget.htmllike that. Then we want to set an ID sayset say child like this. And then in thescript we want to find the widget.So document getelement by id find bfinding childand then sending the post message to it.We can just go back here. We can go backto the main script here. We can go sayjust copy paste this stuff. Childcontextwindow. We'll just copy paste itdirectly from the main one. And then itwill say hereinstead of child say frame contentwindow post message.Instead of that we're going to send amalicious post message this time whichis going to allow us to get thevulnerability. We're going to say likescript alert like this thing here. Weget this down here as well.And then we'll say like that any originsallowed. Yeah. And hopefully this willwork. I might have to add a few thingsto it. And then we'll go into evil.htmlhere. And then what's happening here?Sometimes you might need to actuallywait for the iframe to open before youactually send the request. So we just gohere, say unload like this, and thenwhen it's loaded, we can just post amessage. So just say here, thenhopefully the frame will do that stuff.Maybe not.Okay, it's injected the script alert. Idon't know why it hasn't popped though.It should have popped.Weird.Maybe we'll try a different payload.We'll sayimage source x on error which is equalto alert like this which closes here.We'll save that instead. And then youcan see the alert has popped. So it'spopped inside this iframe. So that thisthis is not like an XSS cross scriptingvulnerability on this website. It'sactually affecting the inside thewidget. So we can use the cookies fromthe widget and not on the main website.That's how this cross scriptingvulnerability works there. Yeah, that'skind of it for post messages. We cansend a request in and then we can eitherget a sync or we can hope that the postmessage will throw up some kind ofsensitive information if it hasn't.Those are the two things that we cankind of hope for when we attack postmessages. One place that I've actuallyseen post messages implemented a lot isin third-party integrations. Let's say awebsite opens like a pop-up for likesome other third party service like anAI chatbot for example like the rightcorner and it wants to integrate it intoits own website. A lot of the time theonly way to communicate between thatpop-up is going to be throughimplementing a post message handler ontheir side which is going to communicatewith the pop-up.And this can open the door tovulnerabilities, right? Because thecompany has to code in their own postmessage listener and then verify thatit's actually coming from the pop-up,which a lot of companies are not verygood at. But for example, if this eventorigin thing if it's getting checkedwrong or if it's too lenient or if it'slike a reax and a h and hacker could beable to bypass it and then masquerade asthe pop-up and then depending on whatinformation is being passed from thepop-up to the website and what impact ithas on the actual on the actual toplevel domain, then a hacker could beable to escalate and try and achievesome like cross-ite scripting. Let's sayan example is like there's a popup on anI frame but then the iframe has tochange its source to some kind ofdifferent location and then the toplevel domain will have to change thesource of the iframe from a post messagefrom that pop-up right it's a bitconfusing you have this like you knowiframe on the bottom whatever right andso it's sent the pop-up will send a postmessage with a URL that's going tocontain do the URL of the next iframethat the top level domain will changethe iframe source to. And if the toplevel domain is overly lenient ontrusting this pop-up or trusting theor just trusting the origin that it'scoming from, then what an attacker mightbe able to do is send a URL with aJavaScript URI. And when the websitegoes to set the iframe to thisJavaScript URI, then it's going toachieve cross-ite scripting. Or if itdoesn't allow the JavaScript URI, thenmaybe we could embed an attacker controliframe in this website and then startlooking to chain other vulnerabilitiesor just report some like fishingvulnerability or whatever. So this canlead to vulnerabilities especially whenthird party integrations are involved.And again, some thirdparty integrationsare not very securely coded and theirJavaScript might not be great, whichcould allow us to basicallyto basically find vulnerabilities on thetop level domain. Remember as well thatif you can get cross-ite scripting on aniframe, then you can send post messageswith any content you want to the toplevel domain. So that could be a waythat even if the actual top level domaincorrectly verifies the origin but thentrust the iframe with the message if youcan get cross-ite scripting on the thirdparty iframe well then you will probablybe able to get cross-ite scripting onthe top level domain as well but lookingat these third party implementations isa great way to attack post messages andjust to end off the video I'm going totalk about some JavaScript librariesthat I often see JavaScript librariesare things that other developers importinto their code and that they run on theclient side. And DOM purify is one ofthe ones from a security perspectivethat is actually interesting to us. Justgo back to the main one here. Dom purifywhat it does it is it allows us to writeHTML onto the DOM but it filters outcross scripting. So it prevents us fromdoing stuff like adding in like scripttags. It prevents the attributes thatallow JavaScript inside of them and itwill prevent those cross scriptingvulnerabilities.Why might someone allow to people towrite JavaScript or why would they allowthis? Well, say you have like a profileand you have like a profile inside webpage and we want to add allow users toadd a description. Makes sense to allowthose allow them to use markdown on theweb page to actually like underline textor like have like a text editor andstuff like that just to look a bitnicer, you know. And to do that, we haveto sanitize away all the possiblecrossite scripting stuff so that itdoesn't end up affecting the actual webpage. And to do that, a lot of peopleuse this library called DOM purify,which you can find here on the internet.Usually, the way you include it is youjust download it and then you just add ascript tag. As you can see, I've addedright here, it's called purify.js.And that will allow us to actually useit inside our code. You see here, we canuse purify this class name here. Andthen we can sanitize stuff away.Let's try it out. We'll write somethinglike test here like that. Say okay. Andyou can see that we've actually injectedthe HTML. So that's nice. That'sintended. We want to do that. Now whatintended is for example if I came hereand wrote like script instead of thatand then I said like test next to itinstead. So yes, we put it down and youcan see that the script did not make itinto the actual DOM. So it was sanitizedaway. That's the main way people use DOMpurify. It just sanitize away all thecross scripting. It's very safe. It'slike gets regular updates. If people areusing the latest version of Dom purify,there should be absolutely no issue.There are like regular security, youknow, security problems that emerge likefor example here September 16th, October11th through 31st, 2024. Vulnerabilitiesdo happen in this library as they do inlike every other library. So you need tokeep them up to date. The main way youcan find a vulnerability with someoneusing DOM purify is to see what versionthey're using. If you go here, they'reusing version 2.4.2, too which beforethat was affected by this prototypepollution. It was critical. So imagineyou could just do like a crossitescripting there. You can see the latestone is 3.3.1which will it will say it on type thethe DOM purify script. So if you seethis purify and you see this version islike lower than this that means that youcan go read up on this commit messagehere you can load this diff here and youcan figure out what was wrong and thenyou can launch the vulnerability fromthere.That's the main way that you can exploitJavaScript libraries is by looking atthe previous security vulnerabilitiesand then seeing if they're using anoutdated version. One of the cool placesthat I've actually seen an outdatedversion of DOM purify deployed is inSwagger UI. Swagger UI is whatvisualizes the API requests for an APIdomain. It's often used in like bookbounty labs where you have like thisswagger and it's like you know the thingis like try it out yourself or whatever.You can like click it and add yourauthorization header or whatever.But there's basically a DOM cross-itescripting vulnerability between likethese uh versions because this UI toolwas using an outdated version of the DOMpurify library. But if you're able tofind this swagger UI between theseversions here on a website, then you canbasically get DOM XSS on it just becausethey were using an outdated version ofDOM purify. This is going to show youthat checking whether a application isusing old versions of libraries isactually a very good way to findvulnerabilities. And I think there's atool for this. I think there's onecalled retirejs.This one here. Maybe let's look at thethe GitHub request here. This one here,which basically will scan for outdatedcomponents, outdated JavaScriptlibraries as you're actually looking ata web page. So, this could be useful asjust kind of a passive scanner and maybeit'll at some point pay its debt andfind you a vulnerability. And there'salso a Firefox extension. So, it'sreally like it's really like a loweffortway to scan for these outdated librariesand maybe get some kind of vulnerabilityat some point just because you just gotalerted to an outdated library beingused. Obviously, keep in mind that thecompanies themselves will be runningthese tools as well. So, you know, Idon't know how effective that's going tobe. I haven't personally found avulnerability to this myself. However, Ihave heard of other people doing it.Have read ups of people that have foundvulnerabilities because of it. So, it'sprobably worth a try. I hope you enjoyedthis full guide covering the manualhacking methodology. If you managed towatch the whole video, then you probablyhave a 0.001%attention span, better than like 99.9%of people. So, you'll have absolutely noissues implementing the stuff from thisvideo and becoming a successful hackerbecause that kind of attention span isextremely rare nowadays. If you didenjoy the video, then please do leave alike and subscribe to the channel andleave a comment if you did enjoy thevideo as well. Anyways, that's it forme. Thanks for watching and happyhunting.