You need to learn MCP right now. MCPmakes AI do things overpowered things.Like when I connected Claude to myObsidian vault. What? Or Brave or KaliLinux? My jaw dropped. I mean, look atthis. Claude is hacking with Kali Linuxright now. So, in this video, I'm goingto show you the magic of the modelcontext protocol. I'll break down whatit is, show you how to use it withDocker containers. It's all local, andeven how to build your very own customMCP servers for literally anything youcan think of. My goal by the end of thisvideo is to create a Kali Linux MCPserver so our LLMs can hack for us.Doesn't that sound awesome? Get yourcoffee ready. Let's go.And shout out to Docker for making thisvideo possible. So, giving LLM access toour tools makes them insanely powerfuland it's necessary if we want them to doanything productive. But to do this iskind of hard. And I hate to say this,but you have to think about LM likepeople to a point. Now, for us humans,when we want to use tools like a taskmanager or an email manager, we're notgoing to be interacting with the code,right? No, no one would use it. That'swhy we have user interfaces or guies.This nice, friendly interface abstractsaway the complicated code, making iteasier and possible for most humans touse it. Solution found. Let's just givethe LLM a guey. They'll love it. No,they won't. They hate gooies. At leastfor now. LLMs, they love text. So givingthem a gooey, it's like they can do it.It's hard. It takes forever. Okay, fine.Just give them the code. LLMs love code,right? Not going to work. They needaccess to that code and your apps arenot going to give it. But hold up. Whatabout APIs? That would be perfect,right? Application programminginterfaces were built so that oneprogram could use the tools of anotherprogram. You can't give a program aguey, but you can expose API endpointsthat allow a program to programmaticallyuse these tools in a language itunderstands. So, for example, my realtask manager, ClickUp, they expose anAPI endpoint that allows a program tocreate a task for you. And when Ipretend to be a program, watch whathappens. Boom. Task comes in. Or I canuse the Obsidian REST API, pretend to bea computer, and create a new note. Howcool is that? So, what's the point ofthis video? Problem solved. Give the LLMAPI access. Hold on. Let's say we did.First of all, this API stuff, that'scode. in order to interact with the APIendpoints. That's going to be runningsome sort of code, which the LLMs oftendon't have access to. And even if theydid, look at this API documentation. Imean, look at ClickUps. It's superintense. You'd have to code each one ofthose API interactions and instruct theLLM on how to do it. Now, don't get mewrong, people do this and it works, butit's kind of a pain, right? And there'sno standard way to do it. There's got tobe an easier way, right? Check the titleof the video. MCP came in to save theday. MCP is the model context protocol,a standardized way to give tools to LLM.It's kind of like how USBC solved ourcable issues. Created by Anthropic, itdid not take long for this to become theindustry standard. And here's why. Checkthis out. So, instead of the LLM havingto run code to interact with the APIs,we'll throw in what's called an MCPserver. This server is abstracting awayall the complexity of these API calls.Now, what does that mean? It means allthe code that you would normally have towrite to interact with the API, the MCPserver is handling that. It has thatwritten into its code. It'll do all thatfor you or for the LLM. So, all we haveto do is say, "Hey LLM, connect to thisMCP server." Slot right in. We'll say,"Hey, Mr. AI, when you want to create atask or get a task, you don't have tocode anything. Just simply ask the MCPserver to do it." The MCP server willhave these tasks or tools exposed likecreate a task and all the LLM has to dois simply ask and use that task. Itdoesn't have to know anything about APIendpoints, anything about the code,authentication, none of that. The MCPserver abstracts all that complexity andmakes it kind of stupid simple for ourAI. We essentially created a guey forour LLM. They just have to click abutton. And the most exciting part aboutthis is that this MCP thing is now thestandard. So if your AI, if your LLM hasthe ability to connect to an MCP server,which most do now, everyone's adoptingit. Then you can connect to a ton ofapplications because everyone's exposingtheir APIs via an MCP server. Enoughtalking about it. Let's have you try anMCP server right now. Quick sip ofcoffee.Let's get you connected to one. I justheated up my coffee. It's super hot.Now, I've got good news. It's actuallycrazy easy to run your own MCP serverright now locally on your computer. Letme show you. It's going to be usingDocker. Shocker. That rhymed. And youcan do this on pretty much any machineyou want. Mac, Linux, Windows. The onerequirement is that you're runningDocker Desktop. Actually, let me do awhole what you need thing real quick.I'm not sure why I did jazz hands there.That felt very weird. I can't imaginehow it felt for you. So, Docker Desktopand you'll also need an LLM app,something that can run large languagemodels and something that can use MCPservers. I'm going to demonstrate threeoptions. I'll show you cloud desktop, mypersonal favorite. It's free. This willbe using the cloud models, which arefantastic. I'll show you LM Studio forlocal models like Llama. And for all youpeople who love, I'll show you Cursor.Let's get started with our Dockerdesktop install. It's really easy. I'vegot a fresh Mac here. I'm going to goout to docs.docker.com.docker.com/destopand that's it. I'll have all the linksbelow in a guide. For me, I'll do DockerDesktop on Apple Silicon. I'm not goingto walk through Windows or Linuxinstalls, but they'll all be below. Keepin mind, Windows does involve the extrastep of getting WSL 2 or HyperV set upas a backend. We're not going to coverthat here, but there are docs in thedescription below. All right, I'll goahead and install Docker Desktop andthen launch it. We'll sign our life awayby accepting all terms. Use recommendedsettings. And now here, you can create aDocker login if you want. You don't haveto, but I recommend it. It's free. Nopressure. Now, Docker Desktop is greatat running Docker containers. Youprobably saw that coming, but maybe whatyou didn't see coming is they're greatat running MCP servers with their MCPtoolkit. This is brand new, hot off thepresses. And when I first heard aboutit, I didn't care so much. Honestly, I'mlike, so what? Then I tried it. And nowI use it every single stinking day. It'samazing. Now, to get this working, wehave to turn on a few things. The mainthing is the MCP toolkit. We'll click onthat real quick. Actually, is it alreadyinstalled and set up? Let's go makesure. Let's go to our settings. We'll goto beta features. Okay, I already hadDocker MCP toolkit enabled. Go checkthere right now to make sure you don'talready have it enabled. And that's umall we had to do. Now, let's pick an MCPserver to run. They have a wholecatalog. Look at all this. Now, theseare official MCP servers that are partof their catalog. As I mentioned, we canmake our own. I'll show you that here ina moment. But let's search for one thatwill be really fun right now. Obsidian.So, yes, there is an Obsidian MCPserver. I'll just add the sucker. Andall I have to do is paste in my ObsidianAPI key, which I can get from Obsidianhere. Now, Obsidian is a local open-source notes application, my favorite. Iuse it every day. And they have acommunity plugin called local REST APIthat I installed. We already used itearlier. I'm going to grab this API keythat it provides and paste it into thisfield here.And that's it. Getting back to myservers tab here. You can see I have anObsidian server, 12 tools available. IfI jump in there, I can see what thetools are. Click on tools and you cansee that it's describing these tools inplain language. Use Obsidian appendcontent to append content to a new orexisting file in the vault. Behind thescenes, it's doing all these API callsto the Obsidian REST API. But for you,me, and the LLM, we just know we say,"Hey, get some changes. Hey, do a simplesearch." And it does it for you. Youready to see it happen? Now, you'reabout to see some slide of hand here.Really just some magic behind thescenes. Something absolutely crazy ishappening. Something called the DockerMCP gateway. Okay, I'm not going to showyou that just yet. We'll cover more onthat later, but just know it's doingsome extra magic behind the scenes. Now,notice under MCP toolkit, we have theoption for servers, the catalog, andthen we have clients. These are the LLMsthat can interact with the Docker MCPservers. Look at that. Cloud desktop isright here. What do you say we connect?And that was it. I just did it. So, Ihave Cloud running right now. This is afree account. I don't pay for anything.I'm going to restart it. Launch itagain. And by the way, ignore this. Wewon't need this right now with our owncustom tools. Now, I'm going to click onthis setting box right here. And you'regonna see something amazing. MCP Docker.That's us. That's what we just did. If Iclick on that, it's going to show youthe tools that we just added to Claude.So, watch this. Yo, create a note in myObsidian detailing the best way to makeFrench press coffee. Let's go. Now, it'sgoing to start thinking. Then it's goingto realize, oh, I have a tool availableto me. I'm going to try and use that.Let's look behind the scenes here. Yeah,it's getting it ready now. It's going toask you permission to use that toolbecause it is accessing things outsideof its normal purview. Sure, I willallow it just this one time, though.Okay, so it said it did it. Let's gotake a look.There it is in my notes. Are youstinking kidding me? H, it works thesame way for search. I'm going to createa fun note here. Just something random.Cool. Now I'm going to ask it to search.Hey, search my vault for something aboutdrinking tea. I'll allow one time to dothe simple search.It's going to do a broader search. It'lltry a few times. It's going to read thenote or get the file contents. But see,here's what's happening here. This iswhy this is amazing. It's not having toauthenticate. Doesn't know anythingabout that. Doesn't care. Doesn't knowany code or API, anything at all. Itjust knows that it can call that tool,use that task tool, and that's it. And Igot the information. This is so powerfulfor us. Are you kidding me? Coffee breakfor that.Hey, never chat from the future here.What I'm showing you here, it's cool,but it's all local. At this time stamp,I'm going to show you the Docker MCPgateway and how we can make any tool youbuild remotely accessible from thingslike, I don't know, N8N. Dude, it's socool. I'll see you there. Back to thevideo. I seriously have goosebumps justtalking about this. And I've been usingthis for a minute now. What do you saywe go add a few more MCP servers?Because we can add a lot. We can gocrazy. Let's go to the catalog. duck.go.Sure, I want one. It's already there.Fetch. It'll grab URLs. Got it. Or it'llgrab the contents of a website given aURL. Oh, they have so many cool ones.Oh, they have Brave search. I need anAPI key. I don't feel like getting thatright now. Oo, Airbnb search. Let's dothat. Ooh, YouTube transcripts. We cando that. That's crazy. Okay, let's tryit out. Now, this time I'm going to addsome more clients. Let's add um cursor.Click connect. Done. LM Studio. Clickconnect. Done. Now, it's that easybecause I already have cursor in LMStudio installed. And behind the scenes,all it's doing is updating an MCP serverconfig file that each one of these appshas. Now, let's try LM Studio. I'm goingto restart it real quick to make sureI've got everything I need. And LMStudio again is what we can use to runlocal um LLMs. I'll load a model. We'lldo Gemma 312B. And then I think I'll godown here to my plug and see. Oh, yep.There it is. We'll connect our MCPtools. MCP Docker sitting right there.If I click that tool icon, we can seeall the tools, I think. Oh, yeah. Thereit is. Beautiful. Now, let's ask it todo something. So, I'll say, "Find thetop 10 best Japanese restaurants inDallas. Use the dot.go tool and thencreate a note in my vault with yourfindings using the Obsidian tool. Localmodel. Let's see how you do, buddy."Keep in mind, these MCP servers arerunning locally on my computer. I'llgive it permission. Go ahead, bud. Okay.But it didn't create the note in myvault. Let's try it again. Okay. Gemma'skind of dumb. Let's try DeepSeek, amodel that can think.Give her permission. Come on, buddy. Youcan do this. All right. Gave permissionto Obsidian. Okay. It found the Japaneserestaurants. Let's check Obsidian. Itdid it. Oh no.Local models are dumb. But it did thetool call, which is what we cared about.If we did that same thing in Claude, itwould move very quickly.[Music]Okay. Said I did it. Let's check it out.Oh, I did a great job. Check that out.That's so fun. Let's see if Cursor cando the same thing. I'm going to restartCursor.Grab the transcriptfor this YouTube video. Look at that.Run the tool. And this is the freeversion of Cursor, too. Oh my gosh, itgrabbed it. Now, let's add that to myObsidian Vault. It's so powerful, man.Okay, it finished. Let's go check ournote. There it is. Grabbed my YouTubevideo, summarized it, put it in ournote. Come on. Are you not excited aboutthat coffee stinking break?You know, people ask me, "Is thatenthusiasm? Is that fake? Is thatscripted?" No, it's not. Ask my wife.I'm always like this. All right, here wego. It's time for you to build your veryown MCP server. Custom, just how youwant it. Because there may not be an MCPserver out there that does what you wantit to do. So, right now, I'm going towalk you through building three MCPservers. Yeah, three. Because it's kindof easy. I did a lot of work to figureout how to make this work well. I wentthrough the pain for you. The first onewill be a fun demo, a simple dice rollerjust to kick the tires, make sure thingsare working. Then I'll show you how tobuild some real tools involving APIs.But seriously, you're going to feel likeyou can do anything after learning howto do this. The world we're living inright now is crazy. Let's get started.Now, the secret sauce behind all this isthis prompt that I built. Here it is.Network Chuck's MCP server build prompt.contained in this one prompt iseverything an AI will need to build youan MCP server. All you have to do isdescribe what you want. Let's do itright now. By the way, if you don't wantto run all this LLM stuff right now, Ido have this entire example in my GitHublink right here. Just around maybe here,we'll tell it something. Okay, I want tobuild a very simple dice roller MCPserver. I wanted to do coin flips, DNDstuff, any kind of dice roller mechanic.Bake that in, make it simple and clean.Let's copy and paste this whole thing.Pick an LLM that you know is pretty goodat coding. Your quality will vary. Iright now love Claude Opus 41. He's kindof amazing. Just going to paste this inand go. Coffee break while AI makesmagic things happen. And what this willspit out is everything you need to buildthis server. It'll walk you through itstep by step. I think I asked it to dotoo many things.It's almost done. Okay, it finallyfinished. It gave us a lot of stuff andwe're going to follow it step by step.Now, it created us five files. A Dockerfile, requirements, dice server, readin,and a cloud. MD file. You really onlyneed the first four unless you're usingclot. And all the files should be rightabove it here. So, first I'll create adirectory. Call it my dice or something.I don't know, something stupid. Jump inthere. cd my dice. And we'll create ourDocker file real quick. I'm just goingto PB paste that in there. It's aspecial thing on Mac.The Docker file will describe how tobuild a Docker container, which we'reabout to do. We'll then do therequirements file, which is almostnothing. Requirements.txtand then the server, which will be thebiggest piece of this.dice_server.py.And by the way, to create these files inthe command line, you can use nano them,I don't care. And then finally, thereadme file, which is just nice to have.Now, that's all we really need to dothis. We're going to run one commandright now. We'll follow the instructionshere. Yep, right here. Docker build.Paste that in. And it's going to build aDocker container right now. Quick coffeebreak.And what it's doing, if you're notfamiliar with this, is it's taking allthat stuff, the Docker file, whichdescribes how to build the Dockercontainer. It's going to add our Pythonserver config. And it's done. If we typein Docker image ls, we'll see our DICEMCP server right there along with ourother MCP servers that we added throughthe Docker catalog. Speaking of catalog,we need to make our own. Now, see herein the instructions, they say you canmake a catalog directory if you don'talready have one. You probably alreadyhave one. And if we type in ls do ourhome directory look in Docker the Dockerdirectory. It's hidden inside MCP andcataloges. See I already have a few herejust kind of chilling out. If you justinstall this you'll just seedockermcp.yaml.We're going to make our own right now.Your AI prompt should spit out a customYAML. We'll grab that. We'll create ourown right now in that location.Docker MCP cataloges. I'll call it mycustom catalog.Done. And there's one more thing we haveto do and it's going to tell us righthere. We need to edit the registry. Now,this is how the Docker MCP gateway isgoing to work. Docker has their built-incatalog. You can also add customcataloges like this or like this. Andthat's just a catalog. Like you shop forthe MCP server you want to add. Once youdo add them, they get added to what'scalled the registry, which if I lsthe Docker MCP directory, you can seethe registry file is right there.registry.yaml. Let's look inside thatreal quick.And there is simply a reference to ourinstalled servers. And it's when youactually install it and register it thatit shows up here. Now, we're not goingto be able to do that through the guey.So, we have to add ours manually here.It's actually pretty easy. We're goingto do nano or whatever you want to useto edit this file. And at the verybottom, using the same format, keepingeverything lined up, we will add ourserver. It's called dice according to myprompt here. And we put that ref thing.Crl + xy. Enter to save. That's all wegot to worry about. And let me tell you,uh, we're almost done. I was going tosay we're done, but we're not done yet.We do need to edit our cloud MCP serverconfig. We're going to change it to looksomething like this. I'm just going tocopy this and paste it into my cloudconfig here. And there's a few thingshappening. Notice it's still running theDocker MCP gateway command. It's justrunning a few more options. And Iactually need to change two things here.First, I'll need to make sure I changemy home directory to be the exact homedirectory I'm using. It's going to mountthat as a Docker volume. And look,cursor is like, let me help you out.Thank you, cursor. And then down here,you can notice that with the Docker MCPcommand, we can run more than onecatalog. And that's the secret saucehere. We're referencing the main Dockercatalog. And then also our custom one,which I need to change that name becauseI did not name it custom. I named it mycustom catalog.That should be it, I think. And thennotice we're referencing this registrythat we already edited. And that shouldbe all we have to worry about. Going tosave this file. And I'm going to launchClaude. Fingers crossed we get noerrors. Claude, don't disappoint me,buddy. Here we go. You'll get a scaryerror if it doesn't like it because ittries to test the containers. So far sogood. Click on my tools. Go down to myMCP toolkit gateway and see if my toolsare there. Come on. Flip a coin. Thatlooks nice. Oh, come on. Come on. Comeon. Roll. There's all the stuff. There'sall the tools. Cool. It's showing up.The MCP tools are available, but do theywork? Let's try it out. Now, the read mefile gave me some options to say or try.Okay, let's roll a 2d6for me using the dice tool.Come on. Come on. I will give youpermission, buddy. You got this.It worked. Yes. Oh, let's do somethingsimple like flip a coin using the dicetool. Man, so cool. I can generate D andD stats. Let's try this.I don't play D and D, so I don't knowwhat that means. Oh my gosh, what's iteven doing? Well, that's cool eitherway, which I have no idea what'shappening, but it seems awesome. Okay,we got a simple MCP server out of theway, but what about something that is abit more complex? For example, I use atimer tool called toggle, which I use totrack how much time I'm using to scriptand and film. So, for example, right nowover here in my browser, I'm currentlyfilming and I've been doing that for 51minutes. Toggle has a great API, but noMCP server. I would like to use an MCPserver so I can chat with Claude orwhatever LLM I have and control mytimers or check in on my timers. Let'sdo that right now. So, back here at theprompt, I just got to describe what Iwant.I want to create a toggle MCP server.This willuse the toggle API. Now, I'm not goingto sit here and talk about this theentire time. You'll see what I write,but I'm having to make sure I answer allthese questions here.All right, that's what I want. I want itto do three things. Start a timer, stopa timer, and view existing timers. AndI'm just pasting the link to the toggleAPI documentation. Let's go find it.Okay, it should be able to figureeverything out past that. All right,Claude, new project for you. Go coffeebreak while I build this another MCPserver.I also have it programmed to ask anyquestions that aren't answered that itneeds to have answered to complete thistask. Now, remember, when you're workingwith AI, it's all about context. If youprovide it enough context, good contextfor what you want to do and you describeit well, you're going to have amazingresults. Okay, it finished. Same stepsas before with one minor difference. So,I'll do my Docker file. So, I'll createa new directory, add in all the files.All right. Now, I'll build that newserver.This is so cool. And then I'll need toadd my API key. Now, remember the coolthing about Docker MCP gateways, we canmanage our secrets with Docker.Remember, I haven't told you that yet.The Docker MCP gateway, it can help youmanage your secrets, things like APIkeys and tokens. Keep that stuff out ofyour code and nestled safely insideDocker MCP secrets. Anyways, back to me.Also, I explain more about Docker MCPgateways later in the video. As Imentioned before, you don't want to missthat part. So I'll do docker mcp secretlist or ls rather to see what we havejust our obsidian API key that we addedearlier in the guey but we can do itmanually here as well. So I'll do dockermcp secret and it's going to be set andmy toggle API token environment variableand then I'll add in my API key rightnow. Done. Secret set. Let's do ls oncemore to see if it's there. Yep, there itis. Now it's time for the catalog piece.Now I could make a new catalog. You canhave a bunch or I can just add this tomy existing catalog to make it easy. AndI think I'll just do that. So I'll grabjust the part I need, the toggle serveritself describing all of its tools. Andthen edit my custom catalogand add it right after dice. I thinkit's all lined up. Awesome. Crl + XYenter to save. And then we'll update ourregistry. adding that tool right belowdice.[Applause]Now, because that catalog is already inour Claude configuration, we don't haveto worry about it. We'll just restartClaude. And that should be all we haveto do. Fingers crossed. Here we go. I'mdoing this live. Like, what you saw wasreal. Everything past this point. Noerrors. Oh my gosh, that's so good.Okay, let's check our tools. The timerstuff might be at the bottom here. Ah,there it is. Start, stop, view, timers.Oh, okay. So, currently I'm filming andI have a timer for that. Do I have anycurrent timers right now? I'm not evengoing to tell it what tool to use. Letit figure it out. Come on. Come on. Ofcourse, buddy. Here you go.Yes, it's I almost spilled my coffee.Oh, no. I did. But it worked. I got toclean this up.You'd be surprised how often thishappens. Okay, now let's say um stopthat timer.Can it do it? No, you didn't. It totallydid. Okay, now restart it. Come on. Ohmy gosh, it did. That's so cool.Isn't that just the most insanelypowerful thing you've ever seen? You cando whatever you want. How about we builda hacking MCP? Yes, I'm going to showyou how to build right now a Kali Linuxhacking MCP. This one is interesting andwe won't need any special uh API stuff.We're just going to run a Kali Linuxcontainer, which is actually supportednow on a Mac. So, that's really cool.We're going to run it right here on ourmachine. And I've got a description herethat I've used. Let's see how well thisdoes. Okay, that should give it a lot ofinformation. Let's throw it in there andlet it go to work. Now, it may kick backon you because you're trying to build ahacking container, but if you frame itthe right way, it'll be fine usually.Okay, I like that. Happy authorizedtesting. It's done. Let's build it out.Same story as before. for we'll create anew directory, create all our files,build our container, which might take amoment. So, perfect time for I mean,well, you know, by this point. Tell youwhat, while you're sitting there, haveyou hacked the YouTube algorithm today?Let's make sure you do. Hit that likebutton, subscribe, notification bell,comment. You got to hack YouTube today.Ethically, of course.Okay, that actually was pretty fast,which makes me a little bit nervous, butwe'll see how it goes.right under our toggle server and editour registry.All right, it's done. I really hope thisworks. We're going to restart Claude.No errors. No errors. Come on. Come on.Okay, let's see if our Cali tools are inthere. We should see some pretty crazystuff in there. If it's all workingcorrectly. H, it's not there. What toolsam I looking for? There should be likean end mapap scan. Nothing. It hates me.Let's double check our work. Maybe itwants my secret set. That's why it'sfailing.I feel good this time.Yes. Okay. I just wanted the secret set.Okay, cool. Now, let's test some KaliLinuxscan on network 10.70.2.024.do a pretty quick one. Okay, we'reallowing the tool if this works. Oh mygoodness. Oh, there's a white list. DidI put in a white list myself? Oh, yes.Yes, yes, okay. Okay, it put in guardrails for me, Claude. Oh, all right.So dumb.Remove the white list stuff. I want thiswide open.put in guard railscan't stop me from hacking. Okay, I gotit to give me what I what I needed. Ithink I'll have to adjust the Dockerfile and the server. I'll just do themall. Who knows what this LLM changedrequirements is the same.Let's build it again. That should be it.I want restart Claude. Let's check ourtools. Make sure they're there. Therethey are. Okay. Again. Okay. Okay, I'mgoing to change it to make sure I'mrunning as root. Okay, that should doit. Building again. Restarting Claude.Come on. What the heck? Oh, the Dockerfile was screwing me up. Yeah, commentout the user.That's what it was. This is so dumb.Let's build it again.All right, better work this time.It's driving me nuts.Let's do a Docker PS. See if it'srunning. It's running, but it's onlyrunning while we're doing this. KellyLinux is being used right now by an LLM,by AI. I can talk to my hacking box withplain language. Hey, go hack that thing.And it does it. Now, while that'sscanning, I'm going to show you one I'vealready built using the exact samemethods we've used here so far. It's onmy MacBook. I want to show you this onebecause I've played with this one a lot.This will all be in the documentationbelow. Got a few more tools here. Let'stry this. It's just so crazy. We can dothis. All right. Doing an end mapapscan. This is so awesome. I finished inendmap not necto durb buster. And incase you're wondering, you can use allthese things with claw code as well.This one I don't know what's going onwith him. He's taking forever.So in case you're wondering, I'm usingthe DVWA web app. An app that'sintentionally insecure so you can tryand hack things. And there's a log of itright here. Me hitting it. Oh, cool.This one's working now. WordPress scan.WP scan. And dude, this thing's killingit.SQL map coming in. I'm like using AI tohack this from like three differentcomputers right now. This one finished.It found out what it was. Now, if you'relike me, you got to be wondering, how isthis all working? Like, are these MCPservers actually running as Dockercontainers? Are they running all thetime? If I run Docker PS right now, am Igoing to see containers running? No.Then what's happening? And are all MCPservers local like this? or are thereremote MCP servers? Let's talk aboutthat right now. We're about to get supernerdy. I hope you're ready for this.Let's dive in. Now, first thing I wantto show you is that whenever we'reactually engaging with an MCP serverhere with Docker Desktop, it's runningthose MCP server containersbriefly and then taking them down. Youwant to see? Watch. Let's do thiscommand. Hope it works on Mac. I haven'ttried this. do watch dash n0.5docker psbrew install watchdang.All right, we'll just run it while we'redoing stuff. Let's use claude to call atool and we'll just spam docker ps. UseAirbnb tool to find a house in Tokyo fora family of eight for two weeks startingOctober. Let's get our command ready.Allow once. Let's watch. Oh, wait. Iwasn't ready. Ah, here we go.It was too fast. I didn't catch it intime. We'll just use this watch commandhere or this while true loop. Ah,perfect.Let's see if it shows up now. Ah, thereit is. We briefly caught it. It's sofast. That took longer than I thought itwould be to track it. All that to say,every time we engage with an MCP server,a Docker container for the MCP server isspun up and spun down. They're notrunning all the time, only when we needthem, which is kind of cool. But that'sonly running an MCP server locally.There's actually other ways to accessMCP servers, specifically remote MCPservers. There's one from Coin Gecko,which is a popular site we can use tofind out the prices of cryptocurrency.So, we'll have this Coin Gecko MCPserver to cursor, for example. We'll goto our cursor settings and go to our MCPand integrations config and we'll add anew custom MCP server. And what it'sgoing to do is open up a MCP serverfile. And by the way, this is exactlyhow most of the applications we uselook. In fact, watch. Look at Claude.This right here is Claude's config. I'llopen that in cursor too. And now you'renot seeing double. These are twodifferent uh config files, but it's astandard, right? So they look thestinking same. But here for cursor, I'mgoing to change this config. Adding coingecko right here. Notice our Docker MCPserver is running a command with theDocker command and all these arguments.We'll cover that in a second. But thisone here is actually just reaching outto an external URL. This is an externalMCP server. We're not hosting it.Someone else is. And it's using thistransport SSE. We'll cover that here ina moment. I'm going to save it. We'llopen up a new chat here and say, what isthe current price of XRP? Use the CoinGecko MCP server. We'll let it run thetool. Let it get the sample price. Andthere it is. So, that's super handy. Butthis kind of drove me crazy. And ifyou're like me, you probably thought thesame thing. Like, how is thiscommunication working? What do MCPservers use for communication fortransport? Well, it depends on if you'rerunning local or remote. The mostinteresting one that I'm like, how isthis working was docker because we'resimply I mean this all this is doing.It's configured to run the Dockercommand plus MCP gateway run. Likeliterally, the command will be likethis. I can probably run it right now.Docker MCP gateway run. Like, yeah,that's what it's doing. And look, it'sactually running. and listing all thosetools and the server is now up. I'llstop that. So, what's really interestingis every time you try to use an MCPserver with Docker, it's actually goingto run the MCP gateway and then run thespecific MCP server. It's kind of crazy.We'll cover that here in a second. Iknow I keep saying that, but again,seriously though, if we're just runningcommands, how is this working? What'sthe communication? It's actually justusing standard out, standard input andoutput via the command line. That's it.This is direct communication betweenlocal processes on the same machine.JSON RPC messages are exchanged throughpipes. Meaning the transport is almostnothing. It's just like you sitting nextto me and I go, "Hi." Like that's it.There's no need to go over a network oranything, which is fantastic becausethere's like no latency, no networkoverhead. And you'll see that insituations like this where we're runningDocker MCP servers locally. Now, you canrun MCP servers without Docker. Dockeris just making it crazy easy for us. Butmost of the time when you're running onyour local machine, you're going to beusing standard input and output. Butwhat about when it's remote, not on thesame computer, not on the same network.Well, we're going to be using HTTP. Andin most cases, it should be HTTPS.And that's for client to server. It'sgoing to be using SSE or server sideevents, which is what we see right hereas our transport for server to client.And this is a lot more complex, right?Like you're setting up a web server atthis point. You're setting upauthentication. So operating a remoteMCP server is a whole thing. Whereasrunning your own MCP server in your ownDocker container on your local machine,you're just using standard input andoutput. All local, man. It's awesome.But now, real quick, I want to talkabout this MCP gateway thing becauseit's a little crazy. And by crazy, Imean awesome. Normally, you'd have toconfigure an MCP server like this, oneat a time, one service. So, we'd havemultiple entries here for whateverservice we want. But we saw that inDocker, we didn't add just one server toour config, did we? We added a bunch.Here's our list of servers right here.We have what, how many? six. Yet in ourMCP server list here in cursor, we haveone MCP server set up with Docker.That's the gateway. If I already usesome marketing speak right now, buckleyour seat belts. The Docker MCP gatewayprovides secure, centralized, andscalable orchestration of AI toolsthrough containerized MCP servers. Whatdoes that mean? It means when we haveClaude or Cursor, our clients, we justconnect them to one MCP server. We onlyneed to manage one connection. And thisone connection, this one MCP servergives us access to a lot of stuff, a lotof other MCP servers. So, I don't knowabout you, but it seems like this is alot cleaner than this. And of course,we'd also have to deal with all theauthentication, the secrets for eachconnection, for each client thatconnects. But not with Docker MCPgateway. It's all centralized rightthere. Killer. I hope you're starting tosee how cool this is. Or is it just me?I don't know. Comment below if it's justme or if you're joining me in thisexcitement. Hold on. I need some morecoffee. I'll be right back. You can getsome more coffee, too.Okay, that's steaming, man. Check thatout.Almost don't even need to drink it.Yeah, I do. Now, let's get to the CLIreal quick. My favorite place in theentire world. Let's go. You saw that wehave some new commands with Docker.Things like Docker MCP gateway. We justtried that out. Our LLM app is actuallygoing to run that command for us or wecan run this manually. We don't reallyneed to unless we want it to be accessedremotely. We can actually do this.We can specify the transport to bestandard input output SSE streaming tomake it available over the network. Iknow right. Imagine running your ownDocker MCP gateway server for all thethings in your home network or yourbusiness. just okay we're on the samepage here. I think we also have thedocker mcp catalog command which we canlook at our if we do ls we can see wehave our default docker mcp catalog andthere is an official way where you cancreate your own docker mcp server andsubmit that to be added to the officialcatalog. You can do that but you have toget it approved. You have to wait andI'm not very patient. I don't know aboutyou. Docker actually does help us manageour secrets. So Dr. MCP secrets. Nowwhat's a secret? What are you talkingabout? Things like API keys, ooth. Youcan securely manage your secrets withDocker. Now, two more crazy things Iwant to show you. Right now, we'rerunning Docker MCP gateway with DockerDesktop. That's like the official way todo it right now because they have theMCP gateway in beta that you can runalongside of it. But if you check outthe documentation, and I bet they'regoing to make it better and better andbetter and better. Dude, this coffee islike hitting me like crazy. I love it.I'll put this link below, but you canrun the Docker MCP gateway as a Dockercontainer totally apart from the DockerMCP toolkit and Docker Desktop. Beensaying Docker a lot. Coffee break. Whichmeans yes, you could run a headlessserver somewhere else running all kindsof crazy stuff. And I'm going to showyou this real quick. I'm going to runthe gateway Docker MCP gateway runtransport. I'm going run it with SSE. Ithink that's how we do it. Yes. So nowit's actually running over the networkinstead of standard input output. It'son port 8811. That's my IP address. So,real quick, I'm going to jump into NAN,my local NAN configuration here in mystudio. This is going to be so powerful.I'll create a new workflow. I'll have anAI agent come in and do something crazy.And I'll give it a tool. How about anMCP server? I think it'll just be HTTPslash the IP address port 8811.Let's see.Oh, it sees everything. Yes. Look atthat. Over the stinking network. Okay.Okay. So, let's um I'm too excited. I'mso sorry. Let's give it a crazy prompt.Okay. Three steps. Find the bestrestaurant and Airbnb next to it andthen put it in my Obsidian vault usingthree different tools. Can it do it? Ihave no idea. Let's see. I'm so excitedto see if this works.Something broke, though.How to tell to ignore robots. See ifit'll be okay. Oh, yeah. Yeah, it'sgreat. Yes.Look at the logs here in the terminal.It using all these things, all thesetools, but I forgot step three. Oh, Ididn't give it memory. Hold on. You knowwhat? Let's try to oneshot this.Let's go. This is magic. This is puremagic.You did it. There it is. All right. So,where's the best restaurant? Okay. So,it gave me a lot of options. Needs somework on the prompt, but still, it usedall the tools just like that over thenetwork. And it was with one command Idid, right? Like that wasn't that hard.Okay, you just learned MCP. Not only canyou use an MCP server, but you learnedhow to build one yourself and you knowhow it works. That's a skill. Put thaton your stinking resume. Who do you knowthat knows how to do this? The list isnot very long right now. Now, I wouldlove to know what you thought of thisvideo and what you plan on building withMCP servers. Please comment below andlet me know. Also, if you like morestuff like this, more AI automation,which is like more real world, right?Check out my other video on N8N, anautomation platform that's justmind-boggling. That video was so fun tomake and I plan to make another one ontop of that. And of course, you saw howI connected our MCP environment, theDocker MCP gateway to N8N, opening upjust a billion possibilities. It'sendless. We're in a gold rushopportunity right now just to learn andcreate and do things like crazy. Don'twaste it. That's all I got. I'll catchyou guys next time.