This is the video you've been waitingfor. I'm about to take you through thegreatest technology release of the last50 years. Open Claw has taken the entireworld by storm. And for good reason. Itis a 247 super intelligent AI employeethat does work for you around the clock,even when you sleep. The challenge is itcan be super complicated. And because ofthat, 99% of people aren't getting thefull power out of this technology. Ifyou use it the right way, you cancompletely change your workflows inlife. If you use it the wrong way, it'sjust another chat GPTbot. In this video,I will cover every single aspect ofOpenClaw. From how to install it to howit works to security to use cases thatwill change your life. Whether you're anOpenClaw pro or have never touched acomputer in your entire life, you'regoing to get something out of thisvideo. So, let's lock in and get intoit. So, as I said in the intro, we aregoing to cover everything in Open Claw.So, if you are an OpenClaw pro, I highlyencourage you to skip around in thechapters down below. There's going to besomething relevant to you, no matterwhat your skill level is. I have beenusing this nonstop for the past month. Ihave invested literally tens ofthousands of dollars into it. I knowabsolutely everything there is to knowabout this tool, so feel free to skiparound, but let's start off with what isOpenClaw. OpenClaw is a 247AI employee that is just constantlyrunning on your computer findingvaluable things to do and doing them foryou. The best part is it can literallydo anything a human being can do. I'mnot joking about that. It can go on yourcomputer. It can control your browser.It can vibe code apps like you see hereright now. You can see on my screen Ihave seven different open claws activelydoing work for me in this office space.And it actually vibecoded this entiresetup that you see here by itself. Imean quite literally anything you do onyour computer, it can do itself. It canscroll Twitter for you. It can watchYouTube videos. Anything you can thinkof. I have it generating AI images forme for my thumbnails. It's amazing. Somethings going on behind the scenes thatare incredible are it's it'sself-improving. It remembers everythingabout you. So all your conversations,everything you say, every detail aboutyour life, your goals, your ambitions,your careers, your personalrelationships, it remembers that andthen improves itself based on thatinformation. For instance, if I tell itI really enjoy using codecs to vibecode, it will just remember thatforever. And every time it vibe codes,it will use codecs for that. If I tellit I'm running everything on a MacStudio, all the apps it builds will bespecifically for Macs. If I tell it Ilive in California, it'll start makingrecommendations for me for events inCalifornia. Every time you communicatewith your OpenClaw, it gets better,smarter, and more custom, which there isno other AI tool on planet Earth thathas ever done this before. It'sproactive. It does work while you sleep.Let me give you an example. So, I havemy SAS creator buddy and it is actuallyactively working on this software forme. It saw on Twitter that Elon Musk isgiving away a million dollars to the toparticle on X. So what it did was it sawthat on X. It was like, "Okay, we shouldbuild some sort of article writingfunctionality." And it built out a tonof this article writing functionality.You see here, it shipped it and I'vegained over $10,000 of recurring revenuebased on that. All of this while Islept. I woke up in the morning, it hadthe code ready, I reviewed it, thenshipped it myself once it looks good.That is the power of having a proactiveemployee. It learns about you. Itstudies things on the web. It buildsthings out and creates economic valuefor you even when you're away from yourcomputer. There has never been anothertechnology that can do that. And lastly,before we go into installation, I'mgoing to walk through step by step howto set this up. It is open source. Whatdoes that mean? It's open source. Thatmeans you can download the code and dowhatever you want with it. It iscompletely free and open source, whichallows it to be completely customizable.So if it does something you don't wantit to do, if it forgets something, ifyou want to add your own functionalityto open claw and how it works, you cando that. So for instance, I was having aconversation with my openclaw the otherday and it forgot a detail about me thatreally bothered me. So I said, "Hey, youforgot this about me. How can we makesure you don't forget anything about meagain?" It actually went and built outan entirely new memory system for itselfso it remembers everything even better.It is completely customizable and it caneven customize itself. That isunbelievable. That is why OpenClaw in myopinion is the most powerful technologyI've ever used in my life and I think itis mandatory for people to learn. So thequestion becomes, how do you install it?Do you need to buy a Mac Mini like yousee everyone doing on Twitter? Can youput it on a VPS like every other creatoris telling you to do? The answer to thatis no. There are ways to set this upcompletely for free. You don't need tobuy Mac minis. You shouldn't be puttingthis on a VPS. So there are two ways tothink about installation. You can haveit local on your desk on a device or ona VPS, a virtual private server which isin the cloud and on the web. I highlyrecommend doing this locally. I thinkdoing this on a VPS is a massivecritical mistake. Local is easier to setup. It is secure by default. If you dothis on a VPS, you have to do a ton oftechnical work to make it secure. Also,I'm going to go through security in alater chapter as well, so stick aroundfor that. but it is not secure on a VPSand you have to do a lot of work to makeit secure. Local has great integrationwith everything else you're doing inyour life and on your devices. It'sincredibly usable. It's just awesome tobe able to go on a computer and watch itwork as it does things. It's a loteasier than watching like a terminal ona cloud in a web browser somewhere. Thatmakes it incredibly difficult to workwith. And it's just also powerful. Allthese things combined make it a verypowerful tool when you're running itlocally. If you run it on a VPS, you'regetting like 20% of the power. You'rejust not getting the most out of this.And if you're going to use alife-changing technology like OpenClaw,you want to get the most power out ofit. You don't want some hamstrungversion of this technology. By the way,I'm not even joking. This is happeningin real time. My OpenClaw Henry justtexted me on my device. I don't thinkyou'll be able to see this, but he justI'll bring this up on my computer. Lookat this. He just texted me that he builtout a new tool for me. It's an approvalsterminal. I was literally filming thisvideo and he is, "Hey, by the way, Ibuilt this out for you. An entireapprovals terminal where I'll be able tolook at any tweets it generates, anyYouTube scripts, any thumbnails, any AIimages, and give it approval to poststraight from a terminal." That'samazing. That was just out of nowhere.And yes, it will text you throughTelegram or iMessage or anything you'reusing. But anyway, back to the video. Ijust thought that was incredible. Nowthat we determined VPS is not the way togo, local is the only way to go. Thequestion becomes, do I need to run outand buy a Mac Mini? Do I have to do whatyou did, Alex, and buy $20,000 worth ofMac Studios, and you're about to spendanother 20,000 on two more? No, you donot need to do that. In fact, I highlyencourage you not to do that. You caneasily run this on any device youalready have. If you have a old dustylaptop in your closet, you can pull thatout. If you have a $50 Raspberry Piyou've been tinkering around with, youcan use that as well. You don't need anysort of complex hardware for this. Sotake what you already have, installOpenClaw on it, which I'll show you howto do in a second. And then what you cando is as you're using it, as you come upwith more workflows for it, if youdecide, okay, to do this workflow, Ineed more powerful hardware, then youcan upgrade. Then you can upgrade to aMac Mini. And then you're using the MacMini, like, oh man, I could really uselocal models for this one specificworkflow. Then you upgrade to the MacStudio. You don't need to rush into$10,000 hardware. You don't even need torush into $600 hardware. You can startsimple and free and then work your wayup from there. That's what I did. So,choose a local device. If you're goingto run out and buy a new device for it,I think the Mac Mini is the best choiceby far. It is the best value incomputing for $600. For $600, you'regetting an actually incredible computingdevice. I never owned a Mac Mini before.I bought it for OpenClaw right when Istarted using it. And I thought tomyself as I was using it, man, if I everneed a new computer again, I'm justgetting the cheapest Mac Mini. It dideverything I needed it to do. It's trulyan awesome device, but that's besidesthe point. You don't need it, but if youneed a new computer, Mac Mini is mwah.So, you got your new device set up. Yougot it plugged in. You got it up andrunning. Here is how you installOpenClaw. This is super simple. I don'tget the people that have been saying,"Oh, installation's tough. Use a VPS."No, no, no, no. This is super simple.Watch this. You go to openclaw.ai. I'llput a link down below for you. Youscroll down like 3 in. You see thisquick start section here that has onesingle line command. You hit copy. Ihope I didn't lose you at this point. Ihope that's not too complicated for you.If you are on Mac, you open up yourterminal. If you're on Windows, you openup your command line. Paste in that linefrom the website and you hit enter andit's installed. All the people saying,"Oh, you need a VPS. It's toocomplicated to install it locally." Wasthat too tough? Do you need to pay someguy $5,000 to do that for you? Who arethe people paying people to set this upfor them? This is so simple. If youdon't have enough confidence in yourselfto do what I just showed you, then youneed to examine your entire life. Youput that in, you hit enter, it'sinstalled. Once you have it installed,it will take you through onboarding,which again is super simple. The peoplego online saying, "Oh, onboarding's sotough. I don't know how to do anything."Look yourself in the mirror. Do youthink this is going to be tough? Here wego. You hit yes on I understand this ispowerful and risky. You hit quick start.Then you have a couple options. First,we have our model O provider. You havemany things you can do here. We rangefrom expensive and powerful likeAnthropic to very cheap but still prettypowerful like Miniax. Then you havethings in between like OpenAI. If youalready have an existing subscriptionlike an Anthropic subscription, like anOpenAI subscription, you can just go inand plug it in and use it. If you don'thave any existing subscriptions, you cansign up for a brand new one like Miniax.Miniax is dirt cheap. You can pay like$10 a month and be able to use OpenClawwith it, and it's still a pretty goodmodel to use with it. So, you can dothat as well. Now, again, the mostpowerful option here is going to be Opus4.6. Opus 4.6 is just built for thesetypes of activities. It is the smartestmodel and it is also the most personablemodel. It has the most riz. It's thewarmest. It's the most fun to talk to.it has the most motion. The issue is isyou're going to be paying like $200 amonth for that subscription. Now, thefirst question I get whenever I talkabout Anthropic is, "Oh, am I going toget banned for this?" Does Anthropicwant you using their subscription withOpenClaw? No, they do not. Out of allthe AI companies in the world, Anthropicis the one that is most against usingOpenClaw with their subscription. I willjust say this, I've heard of peoplegetting banned from their Anthropicsubscription for doing that. I'll alsosay this. I've never met any of them.Everyone's like, "Oh, yeah. I've heardof someone who got banned, but I'venever talked to someone who's actuallygot banned." So, I don't know if this isjust a rumor going around or what it is.I'd say this. I'm not going to tell youto break terms of service withAnthropic. Wink wink. But you're free todo what you want. So, if you want to useyour Anthropic subscription, wink wink,you would choose Anthropic here and hitenter. Then, it gives you theinstructions to getting your Anthropicauthorization token. You literally copythis, open up a new terminal, paste itin. That will ask you to log intoAnthropic. You do that. That's going togive you a token, which is a really longstring of letters and numbers. Here'swhere most people mess up with this.Copy that. Don't just paste it intoOpenClaw. Paste it into a notepad. So,Apple Notes or Notepad. Then, make surethe formatting is correct. And what Imean by that, make sure there's no linebreaks or anything that's splitting upthe token. Make sure it's all just oneline. Then you can copy it from thereonce it's on one line and paste it backhere into OpenClaw and then you'll begood to go and it'll work. Open AAI hasactually been the opposite of anthropic.They've been like, "Yeah, go ahead. Wedon't care. Use it with OpenClaw." So,you can do that as well. Downside beingis their model just doesn't feel quiteas warm as Anthropic. It's not quite asfun to talk to, but it's still a verypowerful model. And if you already havea Chad GBT subscription, you're good togo. And then, as I mentioned, if youwant to go cheap, Miniax is a greatmodel to save tons of money. Will it beas warm? Will it have quite as much RZ?No. But for the money and value you'regetting, it might be the best bang forthe buck. Right after this menu, whenyou select your AI model, it's going toask you to set up your messagingservice. The coolest part about OpenClawis you don't interface with it through awebsite. You don't interface with itthrough a app that you barely ever use.You interface through it with apps youalready use today. iMessage, Telegram,Discord. This is the most fun part aboutOpen Clause. You can just text itanywhere you are. So, you're going to beable to choose which app you want touse. I highly recommend Telegram. Ithink Telegram is the best way to do it.Telegram has a bunch of really cooloptions like threading and chunking. So,it actually comes in the text likeyou're talking to an AI, which isawesome. Telegram, I think, is the bestway to do this. So, download Telegram.It's free. It's easy to use. It's easyto set up. And it will walk you throughstep by step, really, really simple, howto set it up from there. Then you'll begood to go, and you got OpenC Claw setup, and you didn't need a tech genius todo it for you. You didn't need to spend$5,000 on setup. You're good to go. Youdid it yourself for free. So, now thatyou're all set up, you've hatched yourOpen Claw, you your assistant is born.First of all, congratulations. Patyourself on the back. You did somethingthat only the top 1% of humanity isdoing right now, which is hatching anopen claw and using the most powerfultechnology of all time. You did it. Youare most of the way there to escapingthe permanent underclass. Now you justneed to use it. Once you use it, you'veescaped the permanent underclass. WhatI'm going to do is show you the firsttwo basic things you need to do withOpenClaw. Then I'm going to right afterthat go over some advanced concepts andthe mindset you need to get the most outof OpenClaw. That will be after thesefirst two use cases I'll give to you andthen we'll go into some more advancedthings after that. Again, feel free towork with me. Pause down below. Dothings side by side with the video. Skiparound to different chapters, whateveryou want. This is free form. And ifyou're feeling extra spicy, you can evenhand this video over in your OpenClawand I'll watch it for you. So, let'stalk about the two first things you needto do now that you're in OpenClaw. So,after setup, it'll give you a link tothis gateway dashboard. This is thewebsite you can use to communicate withyour open claw. This is complimentary toyour Telegram or Discord setup. You canuse either or. They're both exactly thesame thing. The first thing you need todo though is introduce yourself to youropen claw. Let's play pretend for asecond. You have your own business. Youhired a new employee. What's the firstthing you would do? You would tell themabout yourself, the company, what yourthe goals and missions are of thecompany, everything like that. You wantto do the exact same thing with youropen claw. So, open up your gatewaydashboard. Go to the chat down here. Andyou want to braindump everything aboutyou. You want to brain dump who you arein your background. So, for instance,I'd say I'm Alex Finn. I'm a softwareengineer. I studied computer science. Iwas a developer for years and then Imanaged a team of tech consultants at abig tech company. And now I createcontent about AI, build out software,and do a whole bunch of other things.I'd brain dump that all in. Then I'd gothrough my personal preferences. I'dsay, I want you to be proactive. I wantyou to be autonomous. You don't needpermission for everything. Just getthings done. Advance our goals andmissions as much as you can. You'regiving your personal preferences for howyou want to work with your employee. Andthen lastly, you want to brain dump yourgoals and ambitions. This is probablythe most important part of all this.What are you trying to achieve in yourlife? For me, my goals and ambitionswere I want to create a 247 autonomouscompany that creates value. And then Iwant to be able to create content aroundevery single cool thing I do with it.That's my goal and ambition because if Ican do those two things, one, I can makemoney without putting as much work in.And two, I can keep advancing my YouTubeand my Twitter feeds and all thatbecause I'll be creating content aroundeverything I do. So, I'm putting in allmy goals and ambitions. I also said Iwant to make a million dollars in a yearthrough my SAS and through my differentproducts. And I put that all in. And nowme and my open claw are on the sameexact page. And everything we dotogether will be in an effort to getcloser to those goals and ambitions. Soyou want to do the exact same thing. Ifyou don't know what your goals andambitions are, you can just put in, Iwant to start my own online business andmake my first dollar. Something likethat. Just put that in so your open clawis aware of your goals and ambitions.And the best part is it's going toremember all of this. It will be savedto memory and every conversation youhave moving forward that will beincluded in context. So you brain dumpthose in. Your open claw knowsabsolutely everything about you. Nowyou're ready to cook. You've beenintroduced to your open claw. You'rebest friends now. Your best pals. Youhave a digital BFF. That's amazing. Nowwe can start getting to work and getproductive. The first thing I haveeveryone set up when they're in OpenClawis a morning brief, a custompersonalized morning brief. This is areport your OpenClaw will send youautonomously every single morning thatgives you all the information you needto know about that day. My openclawHenry sent me this this morning. It isValentine's Day today and it actuallystarted with good morning and happyValentine's Day. Very nice touch byHenry. But it gave me an entire morningbrief. Gave me the weather. It gave meall the news about my interest. So knowsI'm super into vibe coding. I loveClaude Code. I love Codeex. It gave meall the new trends in vibe coding. Itspent all night researching the news,reading the news for me, figuring outwhat was relevant. It gave me a bunch ofideas for videos I can film today. So, Iwake up, maybe I don't have any ideasfor videos. I can go, oh, Henry gave mea few right here, and I can choose oneof them and film much easier. And thebest part is actually writing me thescripts and sending it to my Discord.But that's an advanced workflow we'll gothrough a little bit later. It's alsogoing through my tasks and to-do list.So, it's connected to my Things three,which is the to-do list app I use, andit's able to tell me what tasks I haveon there and even what tasks I assign toHenry on there. So, I wake up, I knowexactly what I need to start tacklingthat day. And then it gave merecommendations for tasks I need to doright away. So, choosing a video angle,going through our approval queue, whichis a bunch of tweets and content thatcame up for me, and I just need toapprove it. And then that's a nicelittle touch there, telling me to enjoyit cuz it's Valentine's Day. you need tohave your own custom morning brief likethis. And this is super easy to set up.So here's a little bit about how thisworks. Your open claw at any time canjust schedule things to do in thefuture. So it uses what's called cronjobs, which is basically just scheduledtasks to do things in the future. So ifI say, "Hey, bills me a morning briefevery morning at 6:00 a.m." It willschedule in perpetuity forever 6:00 a.m.every day for it to do something. Sothis is how we do it. We'd say, I putthis down in the description below.Please schedule a brief for me every dayat 8 a.m. Send it to my telegram in themorning brief. I want number one, theweather wherever you are. Number two,the top news stories in AI. This couldbe any interest you have that you wantnews on. Number three, any task I havein my to-do list on things. Three, thiscan be whatever to-do list app you'recurrently using. And number four, taskyou can complete for me today thatbrings me closer to my goals. This isprobably the most important one becausewhat this allows your open claw to do isthink for itself. What can I do tocomplete tasks for my boss? And thiswill open up doors you've never thoughtof before. You're going to be doing thisas much as possible. And I'm going totalk about this a little bit later inthe video. It's called reverseprompting. It's instead of us tellingwhat OpenC claw to do, we're lettingopen claw think for itself to figure outwhat to do. Much more on that coming up.You're going to hit enter on this andyou're going to be good to go. By theway, if you've learned anything so far,we've covered a ton. Make sure to leavea like down below. Make sure tosubscribe and turn on notifications cuzall I do is create incredible videosabout OpenClaw. And also, if you wantlive boot camps, every Friday I do alive boot camp on OpenClaw where you canhang out with me, ask me questions, seelive demos. I do it all in the vibecoding academy. Link for that is downbelow. We have, at the time of filming,600 people in the Vibe Coding Academyjoining these live boot camps everyFriday. So, I hope to see you there. So,feel free to customize this prompt anyway you want with anything you want inyour morning brief. Make this custom toyou and you're not locked into this. Youcan at a later point go back and say,"Hey, tweak my morning brief with this,tweak it with that." Again, this isconstantly self-improving this openclaw. Next, I want to talk about missioncontrol. Now that we have our morningbrief set up, the next big thing you'regoing to want to do as one of your firstuse cases is build a mission control.What's a mission control? It is a customdashboard for you and your open claw tobuild the tools you need to beproductive and get closer to your goals.This is what my mission control lookslike here. I've been building this outfor weeks now. As you can see in thelefth hand side, there are tons ofdifferent custom tools me and myopenclaw built out together. This wasall vibecoded by my openclaw Henry. Ididn't write any of this code myself. Ididn't even vibe code this myself. Isaid, "Henry, go and build a missioncontrol for me." And it vibe coded itfor itself. That's not vibe coding. Icall this vibe orchestration. We're vibeorchestrating our open claw. So, youwant to build this out, too. You want tohave your OpenClaw build you out amission control where it can build anyof the custom tools it needs. thingslike to-do lists, things like places totrack all your sub aents like I havehere. Things like an approvals queuewhere it can write you content and youcan just approve it and it sends it out.All these are custom tools you can buildout. The number one request I get is,"Hey, can you open source your missioncontrol?" Yes, I will do thateventually, but I do not recommend thatas the way to setting up your missioncontrol. Your mission control should becompletely custom to you, your goals,your ambitions, and your open claw. Sowhat you want to do is now that we haveour morning brief set up. Go to youropen claw and say this. I put thisprompt down below. Feel free to copy andpaste it. I want you to set up a missioncontrol. This is a custom place for usto build out any tools we need to bemore productive. Please build this usingNex.js and host it locally. That willcause your open claw to go vibe codemission control for you which will justbe a custom dashboard. And then fromthere you'll be able to go and say heylet's build a to-do list together,right? Let's build a visualization ofyou working. Anything you need, it canthen go and vibe code it inside yourmission control. You don't need codingexperience for this. It can just do itfor you. And now as you're working, themindset becomes, okay, what can we buildout to make this workflow simpler? Whatcan we build out to make this easier forus? Anytime you have your open claw dosomething, you can say, hey, how wouldwe do this with a custom tool in ourmission control? Again, that's reverseprompting, which is probably the mostimportant concept in AI. Instead oftelling your bot what you want it tobuild, you're saying based on what youknow about us and what we do, whatshould we build? You're asking your botquestions. Just reverse prompt as muchas you can, and it will start buildingout these custom tools for you in yourmission control. The next advancedconcept I want to talk about will saveyou money and improve your workflows,and that's the concept of brains andmuscles with your open claw. The way Ilike to think about it is whatever modelyou chose during setup is your brain.It's the one that orchestrates anddecides what to do. And then you can useother models as muscles. These are goingto be the models that actually do workand create things. So Opus 46 currentlyis the best brain in the world. It isthe best to talk to. It is the bestdecision maker. I like using Opus as thebrain. Again, it's very expensive. So Ilike to use other models as muscles. Sofor instance, for coding, I like to usecodeex for the muscle because that'svery cheap but still very powerful. Forfinding the latest news, I like to useXAI. So whether that's the X API or theGro API because XAI is very good atfiguring out what's trending at themoment because it's hooked into socialmedia. For searching the web, I like touse the Brave API. The Brave API is avery good and cheap API for searchingthe web and finding current information.And so that's the muscle I use forsearching the web. You want to set upthese brains and muscles. You alreadyhave the brain set up. So all you needto do now is go to your open claw andsay, "Hey, for coding moving forward,please use the codec cli." Then it willask you for your open AAI API key. Yougive it to it. You got that muscle setup. Then you say, "Hey, for findingtweets, I want you to use the X API."It'll ask you for your API key. Boom,you're set up. You have that muscle setup. Now, moving forward, your brain,which is opus, can save tokens becauseit's not doing everything itself. It'sinstead spinning up other muscles andother models to do that work for it. So,you're not only saving money on tokens,but you are also using the best modelsfor the best jobs out there, which ishuge. It makes your workflow moreefficient. Now, where we start getting alittle bit more advanced is when itcomes to local models. The endgame in mymind is when we start using local modelsfor each one of these muscles. I spentover the last few weeks $20,000 on MacStudios. Why did I do that? I wanted themost powerful computers humanly possiblethat will allow me to run local models.What are local models? Those are AImodels that are not run on the internet,in the cloud, in servers. They areinstead run on your computer. And thathas many benefits. that allows you tohave a unlimited token so you can justdo whatever you want locally and b givesyou your own personalized localintelligence. I believe this is thefuture. So what I started doing is Istarted using local models for some ofthese muscles. So for instance coding Inow use MiniAX 2.5 completely locally.Now all coding is done completely freefor me locally on my computer. Now doesthis mean you need to go out and spend$10,000 on a Mac Studio? No. But as youget more advanced and as you set up moreof these workflows, you can start tothink about as you go along. Okay, maybeI can replace this workflow with a localmodel or this one and then you canslowly upgrade your hardware from there.So local models is definitely a conceptyou want to consider. I strongly believein the near future we will have superintelligent local models that we can runon our computers where we don't have tospend a penny on tokens anymore. It allhappens locally. I started preparing forthat future by buying a Mac Studio. Youcan run local models on Mac minis. Theywon't be as powerful, but at least youcan get them running and you can getused to a future where you have localintelligence running on your computers.On top of that, they're just super funto play with, super interesting to use.You learn a lot more about thetechnology. You get a lot more familiarwith AI. So, I can't recommend itenough. Start doing research into localmodels. Start spitting them up. you'llhave a lot of fun and you'll get a moreadvanced workflow out of it. I also wantto get into some more advanced conceptshere, which is the open claw mindset.How you want to think about open clawoverall. Number one is I see a lot ofpeople making mistakes when it comes tousing their open claw. I see them doingthings that break their open claw and itnever works again. I see themcommunicating with it in a way that'sjust inefficient. Here's the mindset youneed to have with openclaw. One is it isa super intelligent human beingemployee. you are the manager of thishuman being employee. I see a lot ofpeople going in and they're like, "Oh, Iwant to change the way OpenClaw workshere. I wanted to do this instead." Andthey go in and they mess with the configfiles and they change things around.That's the stupidest thing you can do.That's how you break your open claw. Ifyou want your open claw to behavedifferently, you don't go in and changeconfig files. You say, "Hey, open claw,I want you to do this differently, orI'd like you to do this." You give itgoals and objectives. You don't tell ithow to do things. You tell it what theend state you want is and it goes andfigures out how to get to that endstate. So if for instance it has theconcept of heartbeats, what areheartbeats? Heartbeats are every halfhour it goes and it checks to see if ithas any tasks it needs to doautomatically. Say you want to speed upheartbeats. You want it to be every 5minutes instead because you have areally advanced workflow you're doing.What I'm seeing a lot of people doing isthey're going in the config file andthey're manually changing the heartbeat.No, you want to give it a goal and itwill figure out the best way to do that.So you say, "Hey, Open Claw, I want youto change your heartbeat to every 5minutes." It will go and figure out theright way to edit its own stuff. Yougive the endstate goal, it figures outthe way. Stop thinking about how itshould do things. It's a superintelligent employee. It will figure outthe best way to do things. Next, reverseprompting is your friend. This is themost important recommendation I cangive. Reverse prompting because this isa super intelligent human employee. Youwant to lean on it as much as possiblefor decision-making. You don't want tomake all the decisions yourself. Youwant to say, "Hey, what's the best wayto do this?" Or, "Based on what you knowabout me, what would you do here?" Or,"Based on our goals and ambitions, whatwould you build out in our missioncontrol?" You're constantly askingquestions rather than telling it what todo. The more questions you ask your openclaw, the better the results will be.I'll tell you this, the more reverseprompts you can do on a daily basis, themore powerful your open claw will be.So, reverse prompt, reverse prompt,reverse prompt. Write that down on apost-it note. Put it on your monitor.Reverse prompt as much as humanlypossible and you'll get way more powerout of open cloth. And here's animportant one as well. Anytime it messesup, anytime it has a task it can't do,ask it to figure it out and build asolution. So, for instance, I said, Iwant you to be able to send me tweetsand then wait for my approval to sendthe tweets out. When I asked to do that,it didn't have an approvals queue. So,it went out and built its own approvalsqueue for me inside my mission control.anything it can't do, just have it buildit out. It is a self-improving bot.Anytime it messes up, so maybe itforgets something or it does somethingthe wrong way, say, "Hey, pause rightthere, Open Claw. Build a new skill thatsolves this problem." So, for instance,I wanted to write my newsletters. Linkto my newsletters down below. I wantedto send me drafts every single Wednesdaynight, and it wrote me a couplenewsletters, and they both stunk. So, Isaid, "Hey, let's pause here. Readthrough all my past newsletters, thenbuild a newsletter skill that helps youwrite better newsletters." It went, itbuilt this new skill, and now it'sself-improved. Anytime it can't dosomething, or anytime it does somethingpoorly, say, "Hey, pause. Figure it out.Build a skill to do this better, build atool in our mission control to do thisbetter." And moving forward, it will bebetter and give you way better results.Remember, it is self-improving. And keepthat in mind anytime you do something.So, I went through the basics. I wentthrough some more advanced things. Iwent through a couple use cases for youhere. Let's go through another advancedworkflow for you here. I think Discordis incredible for advanced workflows.You can set up multiple channels insideDiscord to have bots in and do differentthings with them. So, for instance, Ihave an alerts channel where every twohours Henry goes and finds me trendingtweets on X about my favorite subjects.I then have a research channel whereHenry will go take the trending tweetsand then do more investigative work onthose stories. Then I have a scriptschannel where then it then takes thosestories and writes me YouTube scriptsbased on those stories. As you can see,I have this huge workflow where everychannel Henry's doing somethingdifferent in and I can just go in andhave a record of all the work he did.Highly recommend taking advantage ofDiscord. I don't see Discord as areplacement for Telegram. I see Discordas a supplement for Telegram. So go in,say, "Hey, say OpenClaw, I want you tobuild me out an advanced Discordworkflow. What do you think would bechannels we could have in there thatwould make our workflow even better?"Boom. A little reverse prompt for youright there. And then you go in and itwill build out the Discord setup foryou. Easy peasy. And now you have thisadvanced workflow going. Lastly, I wantto talk about security. This is one ofthe biggest questions I get. Is OpenClaw secure? Is it dangerous? Well, letme be blunt with you right here. Is itsecure? If you use it the right way,yes. If you don't use it the right way,no. It's not secure. and it can dodamage, but the fact that it's sopowerful makes it insecure. Just is whatit is. If it wasn't so dangerous, itwouldn't be nearly as powerful. So, hereare a few rules you need to keep inmind. There are no final list of everysingle tiny security thing you can dobecause everyone uses their botdifferently. So, here are the threehighle things you need to keep in mind.One is your open claw has control overeverything on your computer. Anything onyour computer, your open claw is exposedto. That means if you have passwords onyour computer, if you have API keys onyour computer, that means your open clawhas access to it. So your open claw hasbasically admin access to your entiredigital life. If you're logged in to Xon your computer, it has access to yourentire Twitter account. If you're loggedinto your Gmail on your computer, it hasaccess to all your emails and can emailanyone out. It is admin on everything onyour computer. So that means if youdon't want your open claw to have accessto something, don't be logged into it onyour computer. That also means you don'twant to expose your open claw to theworld. What does that mean? If youexpose your open claw to the world, sosay put it in a group chat with yourfriends or allow it to reply to tweetson X, that means it can get promptinjected. And if it gets promptinjected, that means it can exposeanything it has access to like yourpasswords and API keys. So, I highlyrecommend against putting your open clawon group chats. I highly recommendagainst allowing anyone to have accessto your open claw because if they haveaccess to your open claw, they haveaccess to all your passwords and APIkeys and email accounts and Twitteraccounts and all that. So, keep itpersonal, keep it private. Do not allowanyone to talk to it, expose itself toit, anything like that. I don't have itreading my tweet replies. I don't haveit reading my emails. I will eventuallyget to the point where I put up theguard rails around it to make it safe,but right now I just have it doingpersonal work on my computer. And thelast security tip I will give is thinkdeeply about what your claw will do withevery prompt you give it. Before yougive it a prompt, think will this exposeit to the world? Will this make it dosomething risky? Will it allow it to getprompt injected in some sort of way? Ifyou think deeply about every prompt yougive it, you will be able to stop itfrom doing stupid and bad things. Right?So three is think deeply with everycommand you give what your claw is goingto do. And you can even take it a stepfurther and say, "Hey, before you doanything, open claw, give me astep-by-step plan on what you plan ondoing here." If you keep these threethings in mind, there's basicallynothing you'll be able to do where badthings will happen. It's all aboutpersonal responsibility. As they said inSpider-Man, with great power comes greatresponsibility. If you're using OpenClaw, you have great great power. So,make sure you have great greatresponsibility with it. There arehundreds of more advanced use cases. Ifyou want more looks into those, checkout my channel. I have so many videosabout OpenClaw. Let me know down in thereplies below. What do you want to seemore of on the channel about OpenClaw?Do you want more videos on missioncontrol? Do you want more videos onlocal models? Do you want more videos onmore advanced use cases, security? Letme know. All my videos are based onfeedback and requests. So, I listenclosely to every single comment. Again,if you want to ask me questionsdirectly, feel free to join the liveOpen Claw boot camps, which are everysingle Friday. If you join Vibe CodingAcademy now, you get all the pastrecordings to the boot camps. Thatlink's down below. Super critical youturn on notifications, too, so you learnabout these advanced workflows themoment I come up with them. I hope thiswas helpful. So much more coming out onOpen Claw soon. Enjoy the power, enjoythe technology. This is the most amazingtime to be alive ever.