I have this organization of 10 differentOpenClaw agents doing work for me 24/7,365. It literally creates me value allday and even when I sleep. I'm literallythe CEO of my own AI company. In thisvideo, I'll show you how to do the exactsame thing. I'll show you how to buildyour own AI organization, determinewhich agents do what, and which modelsyou should be using to save tons ofmoney. By the end of this video, you'llbe your own AI agent CEO with an army ofAI agents creating value for you at alltimes. Let's lock in and get into it.So, what you're seeing here, I believe,is the future of work. Every personhaving an army of AI agents working forthem. I've had them going for weeks now,writing me newsletters, building apps,scripting videos, finding trendingtopics, getting me news the momentthings break. I've been working ahundred times more efficiently becauseof this company working for me. Theseare all open claw agents and sub aentsjust continuously around the clock doingthings. What we are going to go throughis how you can set up this same exactteam as well. How to determine whichagents sub aents to use, what theyshould be doing, and help you figure outsome use cases that will be helpful foryou. If you're watching this right now,you probably only have one open clawgoing. And that's totally fine. 99.9% ofpeople have the same exact setup, justone open claw that you kind of talk toand it does things for you. But theideal state of Open Claw is what you seehere. Having multiple agents reportingto each other and having an entirehierarchy of sub agents that report inand do work for you. So the first thingwe're going to do as we build out thisAI organization is determine what wewant our organization to look like. Whatsub agents we need, what agents we need,what models they need to run on, and howyou're going to communicate with allthem. This will help set it up so you'regetting tons of value out of yourorganization. This is going to help youget way more work done, automate waymore of your work, and just make a lotmore money. So, you have your open clawright now. I call this my chief ofstaff. This is Henry. This is running onOpus 46. But what we want to do now isdetermine who our first employee will beunder your open claw. A lot of peopletry to rush in and they try to justbuild five sub agents right off the batthat do all these different things. Thatis a massive mistake. You want to startone step at a time. We want to find onesub agent that does one use case verywell and then we can layer on sub agentsafter. It's like the people that run offand buy like 20 Mac minis to start. It'sa mistake. Start with one. Start verysmall and narrow and then we layer onafter. But how do you know what yourfirst sub agent should be and what theirrole should be and what model theyshould be using? That depends entirelyon what your day-to-day tasks are. Ifyou're a coder, you should probablybuild a coding sub aent that does workfor you. If you're a content creator,you should have a writing sub agent. Ifyou're a researcher, you should probablyhave a researching sub agent that doeswork for you 24/7. If you're not surewhich one to go with, I recommendsetting up a coding sub agent. This is asub agent that's spun up anytime youneed an app built. And it doesn't matterif you're a coder or not. You should bebuilding apps with your OpenClaw at alltimes. It is really easy to do. Youdon't need coding knowledge. So if ifyou don't know which sub aent you wantto build right away, let's start with acoding sub aent. Real quick before wecreate that sub aent, we're going towant to determine which model it runson. This is a big advantage to settingup a organization like this is you canhave the right model doing the righttask at the right time which will saveyou money. If you do everything withclaude or everything with Chad GBT, it'sgoing to be very expensive. So fororchestration, the best model is Opus46. for coding, which is going to be theagent we set up next. Chad GBT 5.4 isgoing to be the best. It's going to bethe most impactful and also beincredibly costefficient. Doingeverything with Opus is just going to bewildly expensive. And then research andwriting, you can go with a super cheapmodel here. You can go with one of theChinese models like Kimmy or Quen. Iprefer local models. We'll get more intothat later in the video on local modelsand how that fits into this. Or you caneven do open router and choose like areally cheap model on open router. Butwe're going to go with chat GBT 5.4 forthis because we are going to set up acoding sub agent. Then I'll show you howto set up other sub aents after likeresearchers, writers, things like that.But I still recommend Opus 46 as yourorchestrator. If you got kicked offOOTH, then I recommend Sonnet as yourorchestrator and just using the API,which shouldn't be too expensive. Butthis is huge to know and huge to usebecause if you use the right models forthe right tasks, you're going to save somuch money and get way better results.Don't just use one model for everything.So, I'm here in my orchestrator agent.My orchestrator agent was spamming meall day and night over a coding taskthat kind of crashed, but we cleanedthat up. Let's talk about how to spin upthis sub agent. This sub agent is goingto be our first employee. So, we'regoing to say this to our mainorchestrator, OpenClaw. So, here's theprompt. I'll put it down below in thedescription. Feel free to pause here andpaste it in and work alongside with me.It's probably the best way to consumethese videos. I want to build a subagent that you will use for all codingactivities. Anytime you need to codesomething, you will use this sub agent.Please name the sub aent JSON orwhatever you want to use and have it runon chat GPT 5.4. Let me know what weneed to do to set up the OOTH or APIkey. So, this is going to do a few veryinteresting things. This is going to putin your open claws memory that everytime it needs to code, it's going tospin up this sub agent. It's also goingto assign a model to this sub aent. Soin the config of openclaw, you don'tneed to worry about it. It assignsmodels to all the different sub aents ituses. So it is going to assign Chad GBT5.4 for that, which I think at themoment is the best coding model and alsovery costefficient. And then it's alsosaying, hey, help me set this up. So iteither ask you for an API key or giveyou the link to OOTH or walk you throughhow to do that. Hitting enter on thiswill have your open claw set it up. Younever want to set up things on your own.You always have your orchestrator agentdo it. If you go in and you're changingconfig files, there's a very good chanceyou'll break your entire OpenClaw. Youdon't want to do that. Just haveOpenClaw configure everything itself.You hit enter on this and it is going toset up your sub agent that we used forevery single coding task. Once you dothat, you can test it out. So you cansay, "Hey, build me a quick snake gameapp." Or, "Hey, build me a quick 3Dfirstperson shooter." And it will say,"Okay, spinning up JSON to code that outfor you." And you can confirm that itworked. You now did two things. You madeit so your whole entire setup is moreefficient because you're using subagents. And I'll go into the advantagesof sub agents in a second. But you'realso saving money because you're notusing Claude for every single task.Claude is by far the most expensivemodel. So if you're using Claude as yourmain orchestrator, you don't want to beusing it for everything. You're savingmoney because because you're using theright models for the right tasks. Iusually get this question a lot. ShouldI be setting up multiple open claws?Should I be setting up separate subaents? What's the best model? There's somany advantages to sub aents. My setupis kind of complex. I have open claws. Ihave sub aents. I'm keeping thisbeginner friendly for now, but right nowsub aents are a big advantage becauseone parallel work your open claw canspin up to five sub aents at a time. Sothat's five sub aents that could bedoing work at the same time. So it'sgetting work done faster. You're savingmoney because you can use again theright models for the right tasks. Eachone of these sub aents get their owncontext window. So if you have your mainopen claw doing everything, it can getconfused and slow down because it'shaving context in its context windowabout every task it's doing. Sub agentskeep the context windows clean. Failureprotection. So if any of the sub aentsever crash, your orchestrator agent canjust figure out what's going on and fixit. If your main orchestrator agent evercrashed because you have it doing 20things at once, everything's toast. So,it's good insurance to be using subagents. And then auto archive. So, whenagents are done, when sub agents aredone, they can just get shut down andcleaned up so things keep movingsmoother. So, that's why we're settingup sub agents here and not multiple openclaws. So, we got our first sub agentset up. They're doing some coding workfor us. Next, let's add some things toour mission control that make this all alot more organized. If you haven't setup a mission control yet, I'll put avideo down below for setting up amission control. I just filmed it lastweek in Japan about how to get this setup. You should definitely see that ifyou haven't yet, you can watch thatright after this. But I want to show youa few things you can set up to be betterorganized here. Number one is this teamscreen. This is an org structure. I likesetting this up once you're spinning upsub aents because this does a couple ofthings. One, it keeps you organized, soyou know which sub aents are in chargeof what, but two, it also keeps yourorchestrator agent organized. Henry, atany point when it needs to do work, cancome in here and check to see which subagent it needs to give work to. Henry'sthe boss. I don't tell it which subaents to use. It figures it out on itsown. And because I have this teamscreen, it can figure out on its ownwhich sub agents it needs to give workto. So, what you're going to want to dois you're going to want to go to yourmain orchestrator agent and you're goingto want to say to it, I want a screen inour mission control that shows ourentire team structure, showing each subagent, each agent, what model they'reworking on, and what theirresponsibilities are. This will keep yousuper organized, and you'll be able tocheck at any time like this as you scaleup. It's a lot easier to scale up andadd more sub agents when you have aclear picture of what these agents are.In a second, I'll go through setting upa third sub agent, fourth sub agent, andshow you how to give them tasks that arereally, really helpful. But I want toshow you a couple more screens here. Andreal quick before we do that, everyFriday, by the way, I run a live bootcamp in the Vibe Coding Academy. I gothrough my mission control. I go throughmy sub agents. So, you have anyquestions for me, feel free to join theVibe Coding Academy down below and youcan join the live sessions and ask mequestions live. They're a lot of fun. Alot of people enjoy. There's over like athousand people in there now. Butanyway, back to this. This is thecalendar view. This is an importantscreen to set up as well. This willallow you to track every scheduled taskyour sub agents are doing. So, one ofthe great things you can do with yoursub agents, again, I'll show you how todo it in a second, is schedule task withthem, right? So, I have different thingson here. I have a sub agent that looksat trends every day at noon, see what'strending on X, on YouTube. I have subagents that write me morning briefs. Ihave sub agents that write me scriptsfor YouTube videos. And I can come inhere in this calendar screen and seeevery task that is scheduled, everycrown job that's scheduled by every subaent. So you want to set up a calendarscreen. Again, very, very simple. You goto your open call, say, "Hey, I want acalendar screen in my mission control.Please build that out that shows all thescheduled tasks and crown jobs all ouragents and sub aents have." You hitenter on that. Boom. You're good to go.You get something that looks like this.If you want, by the way, you can pauseat any time, screenshot this, andactually give it to your OpenClaw andsay, "Hey buddy, build this." And itwill spin up your new coding sub agentto build this out. So, if you thinkthese look good, I spent a lot of timemaking sure these look good. Feel freeto screenshot it, send it to your OpenCLagent. And lastly, this is my favoritescreen. There's not much utility to thisscreen, but it is a lot of fun. And hey,you're allowed to have fun when usingAI, and this is the office view. Thisallows me to see each agent working,each agent walking around doingdifferent tasks for me in real time.It's a good way. I just have this up asI'm working during the day and I canpeek over, oh what are my agents doing?What's Ralph doing? What's Codex doing?And I can see that all happening here.So, you should also be building out anoffice screen like this. It's just funand you're allowed to have fun. Feelfree to screenshot this. Give it to youropen client. Say, "Hey, can you build mea 2D pixel art view of all my agentsworking? I'd love to track my agentsdoing work." give this to them andyou'll have this really cool screen setup. So, you got your coding agent setup. Let's set up a couple more thatwould be helpful for you here and thenI'll show you how to get really customand figure out other agents you need.But, let's talk about a researcher.Let's set up a researcher sub agent.Odds are you care about something goingon in the world that's current. Ifyou're watching this video, if you watchmy channel, you probably care about AIand current AI news and trends. So, youshould set up a researcher agent.Everyone should have one. Thisresearcher agent for me goes out everymorning and finds what's trending inopenclaw and vibe coding. So, here'swhat I like to do. I want to build a subagent that you will use for all researchactivities. Every morning at 8 a.m.,please have the sub agent search the webto find trending news about AI and vibecoding and AI agents. Also, please putthem in our AI agent org chart inmission control. Please use Quen 3.5 forthis sub agent or whatever model youwant to use. I think the cheap Chinesemodels are great for this activity, butit's up to you what you want to use. Ipersonally use a local model that'slocal on my computer running 24/7, so itcost me $0, but that's up to you. Youhit enter on this, and now you'll have atask scheduled every morning at 8 a.m.where your sub agent will go out andfind trending news for you. I like thisbecause it helps me stay on top of whatthe newest AI tools are so I can usethem, so I can show it to you guys. Ifyou want more helpful AI videos likethis, feel free to hit subscribe andturn on notifications down below. All Ido is make amazing AI videos. So again,this is now going to set up a scheduledevent for your agent. Every morning at8:00 a.m., your agent is going to go inand they will be doing these tasks foryou. So, as you can see here, if mytrend radar is at noon, yours could beat 8 a.m. whenever you want. And now youcan look at your calendar screen and seeexactly what your agents are up to andwhen they have tasks coming up. Now youcan start to see how this organizationis coming together, right? We set upsome basic agents, right? If you set uptwo, you're good. You don't need to have20 like I do just now. You have themgoing, you see the results, and as theygo, you think of more use cases you canhave them do. And you slowly layer on ontop that. You don't want to do athousand at once. I hate these videoswhere the creator goes, "Oh, you got toset up this army of 50 different subaents. here's a GitHub repo of 50different sub aents that will do workfor you and like no that is I think thatis the biggest mistake because it'sgoing to overwhelm you. You're not goingto know what the hell is going on andit's going to turn you off and cause youto use none of it. The best way toapproach this is one agent at a time,one sub agent, one coding sub agent. Itbuilds you some things. Then you add onone research agent. Then from there youcan start doing really interestingthings. You can have a thumbnaildesigner. It doesn't have to be athumbnail designer. It could be just anysort of visual designer you want. Thiscould be powered by Nano Banana. Andevery time you do something, maybe youfind a new story, maybe your contentcreator, your researcher agent finds anew story, it hands it off to yourvisual designer and that creates athumbnail for something or a visual forsomething, right? We start to slowly addto the organization. Maybe you run abusiness and you have an ex account, aYouTube account. You want a sub agent tomanage those things. You slowly layer onanother sub agent, a social mediamanager. You do this one step at a time.I wouldn't add more than two in yourfirst week. Master those two, get themin your workflows, and then you canlayer on from there. Let's talk aboutcustomization real quick. I showed yousome basic use cases, coding, research.What it comes down to is you want thisorganization to be custom to you. Andthe best way to do this, again, if youwatch my videos, this is going to belike the 10,000th time you heard this.Reverse prompting. Reverse prompting iswhen instead of you telling what the AIto do, you ask it what you can do basedon what you know about me, my goals, myworkflows, what would be some good subagents we can spin up and assign. Youropen cloud knows way more about you thanI do. So, it will know based on all yourconversations which sub agents youshould set up. It'll give you a list.Choose just one, have it set up, andstart using it. This is going to be thebest way to set up your own AIorganization. Feel free to copy me. Idon't recommend it because me and youare probably different people withdifferent workflows, but you can copy meto start, but always make sure youreverse prompt so you can set up yourown custom organization. Let's also talkabout future state real quick here. WhatI think the future of all of this is,and I think the future of all of this islocal AI. Right now, if you have subagents going 24/7, 365, it could getpricey. It could use up a lot of yourlimits. That's why I think local AI isso important. This is my setup here. Ihave three Mac Studios, a DJX Spark, anda Mac Mini. You don't need to do this.You don't need to run out. This is like$40,000 computers. You don't need to dothat. You can start small with onecomputer, one DJX Spark, right? Load amodel onto it and have that modelhandling one of your sub agentsactivities. Maybe you load up Quen onthere and then Quen 3.5 handles all yourresearch. Now you've offloaded onespecific task to a local model that willcost you 0.0 in tokens. Yes, you'respending some money upfront for thecomputer, but now in perpetuity till theend of time, it can do work for you 24/7without costing you anything. This iswhat I believe is the future. Havingswarms of local agents constantly allday and night doing work for you becauseit's going to cost you a little bit ofmoney up front, but no money after that.If you were to swarm a hundred subagents doing work 24/7, you're probablypaying thousands and thousands andthousands of dollars a year. If you buycomputers, it's just one upfront costand then it cost you nothing after that.This is what I think the future stateis. I'd recommend thinking about thisand think about how you can slowly layerthis into your workflow. But this iswhat I believe the future state is. Hey,I'm open to disagreement if you want tolet me know that I'm stupid. I don'tcare. But this is what I think is thefuture and this is what I'm investingin. I really hope this was helpful. Inthe next video, I'm going to talk aboutbuilding your own AI research lab, howyou can have your sub agents actuallytraining models for you. It's a littleadvanced. If you think that's too much,let me know down below. If you want tosee that, let me know down below. It's alittle bit outside of what I normallydo, so I want to get feedback before Ifilm it. So, let me know down below. Ifyou have any other questions for me, I'malways in the Vibe Coding Academy. Youcan post questions in there. There'salso a thousand people to answer yourquestions, too. It's a whole communityof OpenClaw and Claude Code people. linkfor that down below. Make sure to join.Hope this was helpful.