How can you make money from OpenClaw?Like, how can you spin up these OpenClawinstances, these sub agents, thesedigital employees that can go out andmake you money while you sleep? Is iteven possible? Well, in today's episode,I brought on Nick, and he shows atactical tutorial for how to spin upmultiple Open Claw machines in a virtual[music] instance, how you can beautomating tasks on Upwork [music] andthese boring business automations, andhow you can actually make money fromOpenClaw. If this doesn't get yourcreative juices [music] flowing for thefuture of SAS, how people are going tomake money and how to actually use OpenClaw [music] from not just a cute littleuse cases, but actually money-muh opportunities, then I don't know[music] what will. I had such a goodchat with Nick. It got my creativejuices flowing. I think it will yours,too. And this is, I think, one of Nick'sfirst podcast. So give him a like andcomment to juice him up because heshared that sauce. [music][music]>> I couldn't be more excited to have Nickon the pod. He's one of my go-to peoplewhen I have questions about OpenClaw.Nick, by the end of this episode, whatare people going to learn? Yeah, peopleare going to learn that OpenClaw is morethan just a personal assistant. You canactually deploy this into businesses.You could drive actual businessoutcomes, generate revenue off ofOpenClaw as an opportunity. Um, andyeah, we're seeing it on X like peoplewho are deploying OpenClaw for um kindof executives or um individuals who aresuper busy. uh they're making thousandsof dollars, you know, setting OpenClawup, getting it up and running for thesepeople and managing it for them. So, Ithink there's a huge opportunity hereand yeah, just excited to jump in. Cool.And before we get going, I need you tomake a commitment to me and to theperson listening or watching, which is Ineed you not to hold back any sauce. Idon't want to know just about theopportunity. I want to know how arepeople doing it tactically. And by theend of this episode, what I want is forpeople to take away like I want peopleto know how they can actually make adollar from this. And is that acommitment, Nick, that you are willingto make to to us?>> Absolutely. Absolutely. I I'm not goingto hold back anything. I I'm I've infact I think OpenClaw is is a is a toolthat allows us to be able to do thethings that we have always been able tomake money from like automation with AIbut do it even better and I'm going toshow you how to get it all set up so youcan do that and the wedge to get going.So>> let's do it.>> Yeah. So I guess jumping right in as faras like getting set up with OpenClaw.You can see here you know this is Orgo.This is our startup. You don't have touse Orgo to get started with OpenCloud.Just full disclaimer, this is what I'musing. And what I'm going to do is Ihave a project here. Uh you can see Ihave a couple a couple projects and Ihave Greg. I set you up a project. Ihope I hope you uh enjoy your, you know,five computers. Um, and so you canimagine, Greg, you, let's say you're abusiness owner and you have a busy life,you know, um, you got all you have thepodcast going on. You have all thesebusinesses you're running, the agency,the idea browser, all this stuff, andand you need you need help automatingsome stuff. So, what I'm going to do isI'm going to come in. I'm Scrappy Nick.I'm going to come in and I'm going tohelp automate some things in your inyour business, in your life, um, youknow, as a busy executive. and I'm goingto get you set up with OpenClaw. So,when you open up a computer here, youcan see I have it open. This is the theClawbot um computer I made for you. If Iactually just type in OpenClaw TUI, thiswill open up OpenClaw in the terminal.And you can see I I actually alreadystarted like, hey, I'm Greg Eisenberg.And it's all ready to get set up. Andso, actually, what I could do is um Icould invite you to this project. Andthen you would be able to do this aswell, like in your terminal, you'd beable to spin this up and now you'retalking to Open Claw. So, um, super easyto get set up. Once again, you don'thave to use Orgo. You could use whateveryou want. You could use, I know, uh,Manis just dropped their, uh, their ownversion of like one-click deploymentOpenClaw. Um, also, Kimmy launched theirversion as well. X is down right now, sowe can't actually pull it up on Twitteror anything, but, uh, Kimmy launchedtheir version. And so, uh, there's allthese options as far as getting started.You could use a Mac Mini, whatever. So,the key here, Greg, with OpenClaw andactually creating money from it is tohave the wedge to know what is thespecific use case in a person's businessthat we're going to automate like firstbecause for when when you see open callon Twitter, it's very much a personalassistant. It's exciting. It's fun. Butall the demos that go viral, includingme, I get it. I I'm I'm guilty of this,too. All the all the demos that go viralare a little bit, you know, kind oftoyish. They're a little flashy, but thethe real power is in finding the thingthat actually, you know, drives businessoutcomes, saves time for a business,finding that and and building theautomation around that. So, I havesomething running here. This is my openclaw doing looking up products for uh abusiness that I uh deployed for this isa a promotional distributorship.And what this is doing is it's lookingup products and actually downloading allthe product information and then likeparsing all that information. There'sall these reports it needs to downloadand then uploading that into a Zoho CRM.um so it can essentially you know createa central source of truth for thisclient. So this is a perfect examplehere of like actually creating a agentyou that openclaw deploys to be able toautomate something end to end. Um sojust just to recap are we all good sofar?>> Yeah so a few things I I just want totalk about. So one thing is when youshowed you know that orgo screen you didyou had like five machines running. Sowhat's interesting is you know I've gotmy Mac Mini going you know I've got oneinstance so using something like this iscool um because you can have multipleinstances going right and you can seethem all in one screen in one view. Sothat's really cool that that was sort ofan aha moment for me.>> Yeah absolutely. Yeah, it's likeeveryone, you know, as far as where youdeploy your your main open claw, you cansee here I like I starred the main one.>> Uh, and so that's like you could havethat wherever. But what people don'trealize is openclaw can spawn sub agents>> and I think this is going to be huge forpeople who start like right right nowwe're at the phase of having one openclaw. It's going to happen quickly.you're already seeing on it on Twittermemes about like, oh, what if you havea, you know, 10 Mac minis or all the MacStudios are being bought out. So, thisis happening fast where you're going towant 10 open claws, you know, 100 openclaws. Right now, you could have oneopen claw and just have it spawn up to,I think, eight sub aents and each subaent could have its own computer. Andyou could do this like this is why thisis like kind of where orgo shines is youcould spin up multiple computers for,you know, each individual sub agent ofyour open claw. And in this case here, Ihad it looking on Upwork for actualthings that we could automate withOpenClaw. This is like a little hackhere as far as like, well, I want tomake money with OpenClaw. Well, uh, oh,I don't know any any business that Icould reach out to that could automatestuff for. A great place to start isUpwork because there's jobs on Upworkthat are literally posted. They'rethey're asking you. They're like, "Iwant to pay 500, a,000, 1,500, 3,000,$20,000 for this AI workflow, and youcan I spawned sub, it went viral onTwitter. I spawned sub agents to go findall these jobs and then build out littledemos for each of them, and and then wepicked the best one, and okay, let'slet's apply for that proposal withthat." So, that's a little tidbit thereon on Upwork and all of that.So, which is which is kind of hilariousbecause I mean Upwork,you know, is designed for human beingsto complete work, right? It's notdesigned for machines, let alonemultiple machines to complete work. Um,but I mean, as long as the the qualityof work is good, um, you know, customersgoing to be happy, right?>> Yeah. And I think like it's good to, youknow, it's good to treat it as a as astarting point. like you know if you cansave time preparing a proposal for a jobon Upwork it's like um what is thatworth you know and if you could do justa 100x volume uh what is that worth sothere's a couple things on that of likethe parallelization of work withopenclaw so there's like could you have10 open claws working on a given taskand it breaks up that tasks into 10subtasks and so each open claw does oneof those subtasks that's one way ofhaving parallelization but Another wayis to have 10 open claws working on thesame task uh just 10 different instancesof it. And that was kind of like what Iwas doing here. It's you know fourdifferent instances of the one open clawthat you know or four different openclaws doing the same thing of looking updifferent jobs on Upwork that they couldapply to. So that's kind of aninteresting topic there. Umbut yeah, so like as far as OpenCloudgoes, it's it's it's uh a hugeopportunity. I just want to like throwthis in here. Andre and Horowitz talksabout computer use agents. I view openclaw as a computer use agent. You know,you're giving an agent a computer andit's able to do it's able to use thatcomputer. It's like it's a computer useagent. But that's half the story. Theother half of the story is for it to beable to like click around actuallyoperate a graphical user interface onlike le legacy softwares and systems.And so um you can imagine like you knowin here this this automation I builtthis is navigating a legacy platform forthis client that doesn't have any cleanAPIs and it's able to click in downloadreports and actually you know be theuniversal API uh to be able to solveproblems that you couldn't previouslysolve without computer use agents. So Ithink there's a huge opportunity hereand and Horwitz they talk about it andthey say we believe that the properly uhto properly verticalize computer useagents and assist companies in adoptingit will be a major area of explorationfor startups and [snorts] this is likethis to me this screams openclaw youknow can you create a vertical use casefor openclaw for a business and actuallyassist that company in adopting it Ithink that's that's the huge opportunityhere umSo, going back to this like workspace wehave set up for you. Um, you know, withwith with all the people setting upOpenClaw, you could set it up as easyas, you know, I invite Greg to thisworkspace. I create him a new computer.We could just do it now.>> OpenClaw 2.I select how much RAM. Let's do let's doeight gigs. Launch that. [snorts]Open that up. And then all we need nowto get you set up is to get the um letme get the the curl command for openclaw. I copy that from their website andthen as this computer loadswe'll be able to then literally justpaste it into the terminaland once I see the interface pop upboom. Okay. So now I'm going to hitenterand now we're off to the racesinstalling open claw. So like it's aseasy as that. And I think there's thisis this in and of itself as like aworkspace where you can invite peopleand get them set up with openclaw orclawed code. I think this is like a hugea huge opportunity as well of like justthere are executives right now that arelike reaching out to me like law firms,insurance companies, they're like canyou can I just like pay you to teach mehow to use this stuff? So like thatthat's its own whole thing as well asfar as like if you're savvy enough toeven know how to install open claw andget it set up in the first place. Um[snorts] I just think there's a hugeopportunity around like just helpingexecutives businesses adopt it. Um soyeah you can see it's as easy as this toget set up.And then as far as like what specificthings can we can we automate withOpenClawthere's a couple it takes a little bitof a designs thinking approach. So whenyou go into a business let's say youfind a project on Upwork and you want toyou want to automate that with opencall. Let's say you go into a businessand you're talking to the executive thedecision maker and it's clear that theyhave things that need to be automated.Well, as far as like design thinkinggoes, like you need to have a a clearway of like first mapping like all thedifferent possibilities. You can seehere, this is something I did in thepast of like there's all these differentthings that you could automate and youwant to map them off two very simplemetrics. What is the value that we cancreate by automating this thing andwhat's the relative effort, cost andtime? And so we ultimately want to startwith, okay, we want to automate thingswith Open Claw that are high value andlow effort, cost, and time. And that'slike your your lowhanging fruit. Um, andso you start there. And so like for forthis client, this was like that this wasthat this was like, okay, we're lookingup products on this website. We'redownloading them. We're parsing all theinformation. Uh, that's the lowhangingfruit. So start with the design thinkingapproach of like okay simplest fastestto deploy and then you need to map outlikethe systems design around how like howis this thing going to be automatedright so for this for this client she'slike okay I send an email to a to aclient of hers right she sends an emailto a client and she has a presentationlink with all these products okay andand all those products she needs to lookall of them up and get all theinformation on them and then upload theminto Zoho. So then your next step afteridentifying the opportunity is toliterally like map this out. I useFigma, you can use whatever, but map outthe the actual workflow process of likeokay step one, step two, step three.What is this automation going to looklike tiptoail so that we can do thewhole thing? Um because with open cloudcomputer use now is now you can do thatyou can do you could do things from tipto tail. It's not like um you know itused to be where you'd have to like gointo a website and click a button andthen it'd be able to do some 50% of thewhole thing but then you'd have to copythat and paste that somewhere else anddo it on your own. Like we can do ittiptoail. Um,so quick recap,install open claw into a computer,identify the next, identify the thelowhanging fruit opportunities, thehighest value opportunities, and thenbegin to map out what that even lookslike to begin with. Couldn't you, youknow, sort of, this is meta, butcouldn't you use Open Claw to actuallydo some of thepriorit prioritization on the autoautomations and actually, I mean, you asa human being did the Figma, butcouldn't you actually just use the openclaw or cloud code or something likethat to to help you with that? So, forexample, like if you go back to the theFigma>> Mhm.Likeyou could walk into a business andbasically say, "Hey, I want to figureout uh what we could automate here andyou do customer interviews withdifferent people on the team. You recordthose customer interviews. You get thetranscripts. You upload the transcriptsand then you say, "Hey, based on that,then you're like, you can actually say,you know, you give this as a referenceimage." basically say like, "Hey, I wantto figure out which which automationopportunities have the highest amount ofvalue, lowest amount of effort, cost,and time. Give me the top three and thencreate, you know, Figma." And I thinkthere's like a Figma MCP even uh thatyou can use and you can say like, "Hey,like can you map this thing out based onthese customer transcripts?" Does thatmake does that make sense or am I>> Oh, absolutely. Yeah.>> No, that's that's that's the way to doit. Like I whenever I do any kind ofcall with a client or like potentialcustomer, oh my gosh, Gemini for uh forGoogle Meet is amazing. you have it taketake all the notes and then actuallythat's that's how I even got because Idon't know about I don't know about youGreg but sometimes when you're in thesecalls you kind of for you you know thisthis this industry you know you're in anew industry you're helping thiscustomer you don't understand theirdomain expertise the lingo and so yougot to go back and and like okay likewhat what was it that they said and sohave the granola or Gemini notes orwhatever and then literally ask it tolike okay what's the stepby-stepworkflow and then map it out it justhelps me to map it out visually. Uh butyou could literally ask it, yeah, likeyou said, um based on this transcript,what is the the automation workflow looklike? You know, step by step.>> And if you don't want to use, you know,Figma, you can also even say uh youknow, do output in mermaiduh code and then you can use the mermaidcode and insert that into an Excala drawor a TL draw or something like that. Souh a little pro tip there.>> Nice. Nice. Yeah. Yeah. And the Yeah.And the Figma MCP is pretty cool, too.Yeah. Definitely check that out. So,>> yeah. So, then once you figure out whatthe workflow is, right? Um this is wherelike you have to actuallyum be able to know okay how much howmuch can I really ask like how much canI just say like to openclaw right nowhey like build this like hey build thisthing and you just describe the workflowversus genuinely using something likecloud code to build out like what thatworkflow would look like with you knowPython APIs a genuine automationpipeline and processthat your open claw can actually justtrigger upon um whenever it's likecontextually relevant. So for instance,this this whole pipeline here of likegoing to these websites, looking at thisproduct information, downloading theinformation, parsing it, uploading it toZoho, the trigger of all of that is uhyou know the open claw being CCD in anemail and it seeing that email it has alink that is relevant for this type ofworkflow to be triggered. So that thatis like the thing that's like thelistening event that open clock can dowith like a cron job that it sets up tojust like okay listen for this triggerand then once that trigger starts it canthen activate the whole Python scriptworkflow automation everything that youwould need downstream of that. So you'renot relying too much on open claw's likeum abilities in and of itself. you'remore of so creating specialized AIworkers under each uh underneath theopen claw that it can call individuallyif that makes sense.>> You know, you talked earlier about subagents. I think a lot of people areconfused about what is a sub agentversus a task and stuff like that. Canyou just clearly explain that?>> Yeah. Um so sub sub aents are um I I Ithere's a couple ways to view them,right? So like in the context of cuzthere and the reason I say there's acouple ways to view them is becausethere's a couple ways of using them. Soin the context of like open claw you canask it to spin up five research subaents that all go and research somegiven task and and like and you knowlike I said earlier you could you couldhave it parallelize that task across youknow splitting it up across each subagent or having each sub aent actuallygo and do the same task you know acrossfive different instances. But the nextthing around sub aents is that you canactually like you said um maybe think ofthem in terms of skills. So if you'refamiliar with anthropic skills um youcan have like these specializedinstructions and rules along with actualcode that you can provide to your agentfor it to be able to go and do a giventask. And this is really nice um becauseit, you know, it gives you a very moreper uh a very more powerful generalpurpose agent that can do many of yourspecific nuance tasks um across variousdomains. But the thing is is like I wantmy general agent to be freed up and uhto more so just be the orchestrator. Andwhat if the the general agent this oneright the the one I have start here canjust call a sub agent like worker numberfour here to do a given skill that youhave created. So if your skill is thatit goes on Twitter and finds the mostviral ideas and it bookmarks them. Umrather than having your main agent dothat and now you can't talk to your mainagent for the next 20 minutes becauseit's working on that. Can it call thatskill into a sub agent and have the subagent do that? That I think is wherethings get really interesting and and interms of the context of like deployingopen clause for businesses. I wouldthink of everything that you have interms of an AI automation opportunityaround workflows, skills, tasks, etc. Iwould actually just create that as itsown like specific sub agent with its ownskill that that your open call couldthen call if that does that make sense?>> It does. It does.>> Nice. Um it's it's you know I think thebasic idea is like you know in layman'sterms it'sas soon as you have yourum your open claw instance you know dosomething they're busy you know it'slike they got to they've got a a mug ofhot coffee and so you and your your jobis you want to leverage this as much aspossible. you don't want, you know, youragent to hold a a hot coffee. So, if ifyou ask it to do to move this desk intothis area, you know, it it says, "No,I'm holding a a cup of hot coffee. Ican't do that." So, what sub agents dois it basically creates leveragefor your open claw and it basically sayslike, "Okay, I'm you're going to createa set of sub agents who are going to begood at XYZ thing." And that way itfrees up your your main agent to to youknow as you say orchestrate to basicallybe the manager of the sub agents. Uh andyou know what that could mean is uh likelooking at um quality of work. It canmean uh checking for certain things andstuff like that.>> Exactly. Exactly. I think that's goingto be huge. You know, when when youstart working with these businesses andand customers who want things to beautomatedonce you show them what's possible,their eyes light up. They get all theseideas themselves. These are high agencypeople, you know, they they come up withcreative ideas that they want to startimplementing and and then what yourealize is there's just a a huge a hugelist of things that can be automated andthey're excited about that. And and soactually like the the ability to okayfirst solve a vertical specific workflowfor for a customer and then that openingup their mind and then them being likeoh I wonder if I could could I text thisthing and it does this. This is kind ofwhere like the whole open claw moment umis really powerful. It's like it's it'sthe it's the it's the assistant likecapability. It's the you know I have itI have it here. It's like what a lot ofpeople might get confused about. Why isit that open call is so special? It'sit's the ability that that it has itsown computer. It's running 24/7. You cantext it and you can schedule tasks andreally if if we just removed OpenClawfrom this card here and you just calledthis a really good employee, it it wouldjust make sense be like, "Oh, works 247,can code, can schedule tasks, I can textit, and they have their own computer."Um, so I think that's like kind of whyOpen Claw is exciting for a lot ofpeople. And if it's not, you know, ifsome people think it's it's overhyped,you have to kind of look at the wholepicture, I think, and and then you'reable to really gauge it.>> So I I'm certainly bought in on this onthis idea that, you know, it potentiallyit could be be a really good employee. Ithink there's also cases where peoplearen't setting up their open claw in theright way where it ends up being a bademployee. Um, and I think, you know,that's sort of like the the issue withthat is, you know, sometimes you have abad employee because the manager, thecoach essentially is is not doing a goodjob at giving the right context at theright time. So I think you know do youhave any tips and tricks around umbesides spinning up sub aents like howhow could people listening to this ifthey want to go after this opportunityof um essentially verticalize you knowopen clause uh and automating some ofthese flows. How could people actuallyyou know take their open claw from a bademployee to a good employee? Yeah, Ithink it comes down to let's maybe weshould walk through. So I know you haveI was actually looking at this. So ideabrowser. So for everyone if you don'tknow Greg has this amazing product ideabrowser and I love this trend to thisidea today Tik Tok trend tool thatcatches viral waves before they peak. SoI was actually looking at this thismorning. I was like, "Wow, this isactually something that you can maybeturn into a skill for an open claw tocreate a specialized skill around this."So, let's just do a live. Let's see. I Igenuinely don't know how far can we get.Can we build this out now? Let's see ifI copy all of that. And now I'm here inthe open claw that that we set up foryou. And you can see it just got set up.It's it I just told it, hey, I'm GregEisenberg. So, we're getting started.That's it. And let's just say I want tobuild a um a a specialized skill to beable to do the following. And I'm justgoing to paste that entire um ideabrowser idea. And I'm going to ask it asfar as like creating these automations,creating workflows, or doing anythingwith OpenClaw, my number one tip isalways ask it to ask you questions. So,what do you need from meum to be able to build this out? Umlet's create a plan. And so, a lot ofpeople need to remember OpenClaw is likea almost a little bit of a wrapperaround like clawed code in a way. Um so,let's see. Okay, cool. This is a bigvision, Greg. I like it. Let's breakdown um a realistic build as an openclawskill.So now it's saying okay I need dataaccessI need the scope I need the niche focusum that'll shape what we build a leanskill so the first thing that we canmaybe do ishere in like orgo we have thisplayground mode and you can ask theplayground agent here to do things inthis computer in this this computerenvironment. Um, so one thing I mighttest first is like can we get can we getthis agent to even just spin up Tik Tokand just scroll Tik Tok and identifywhat is on the for you page of Tik Tok.So let's like maybe start there. Doesthat sound good?>> Yeah, absolutely.>> Let's do that. Open Firefox.Go to Tik Tok.Scroll. I'm gonna say scroll Tik Toklooking [snorts] for what the mostcommon videos are on the for you page.Give me a summary. So, let's see howit's able to do this.So, this is using our our playgroundmodeandboom, opens up Firefox.It's going to go to Tik Tok. And forthose listening, I'm just gonna talkthrough a little bit about what thisagent in our our playground is doing.It's it's visually interacting with thescreen. It's, you know, clicking intoFirefox. It's opening up the browser.Now, it's typing in tik tok.com.It's going there.Andlet's see.This is always such a magical experiencejust watching a computer navigate theweb like a human being.>> It's amazing. You know, this is Yeah,there it goes. Uh it's on it's on theit's on the homepage.And now it's going to it's going toactually scroll TikTok. It's going toprobably take a screenshot of this. Getthe context of based off that screenshotof what the video is about. You couldeven see it. It has hashtags moviehashtag for you page. So, it's going tobe able to infer a lot of things. Boom.It scrolls. It scrolls. It gets a popup.It's going to close out the popup. Um,but on your point, Greg, Dario Amade,the CEO of Anthropic, he just had apodcast with Doresh, and it came out acouple days ago. And you know what'sreally interesting what he said in thatin that um in that podcast? He said>> he said this idea of his around thisdata center full of brilliant um youknow scientists and uh Nobel prizewinners essentially his concept of whatAGI will be like. He says, "Theconstraint to getting there is computeruse agents. The ability to have an AIthat can operate a computer like you andI can, but better. You know, interactwith the visual interface, also be ableto do things under the hood, kind oflike cloud code." Um, this is theconstraint he said. AndI mean, it makes perfect sense. If if itcan do anything that you and I can do ona computer, that seems like it can gopretty far. Um, openclaw is like a chatGBT moment, I think, for for this kindof idea of computer use. And and and asfar as like building these computer useagents out, you can see this is this isclearly working. So, we know this ispossible. Um, you can build a lot ofpeople might get confused with Orgo whenthey come to our site. They seecomputers for agents. They're like, whatdoes that mean? Well, I think they getit now. It's like okay you want yourcloudbot to have its own computer butalso we provide and I'll show this weprovide the doc in our docs like we'reactually provide the programmatic APIsso that you can create custom computeruse agents that um do a given task verywell. So you can bring any model. Youcan get Kimmy 2.5 is like the supercheap um you know Chinese model. It'svery good at computer use and you cangive it the ability to click, drag,scroll, type in the keyboard, spin up acomputer. Um and you could createspecialized really fast, performant,lowcost computer use agents um using ourdocs. And I just say that to say like asfar as you know this this thing thatwe're doing here creating a skill aroundscrolling Tik Tok. Um I think that's howwe can we can actually give it a shot islet's just we see this is working now.Let me just grab the ordocs and let'sstart building this skill out. If youdidn't see here I'm at the Ordo docs. Iclick this thing called llms full.txt.This is like all the instructions forthe LLM to be able to build on top ofOrgo.And what I'm going to do is I'm going towait for I have to probably I'm going towait for this to finish this its taskand then I'll be able to tell it. Um but[snorts] while this goes, Greg, you haveany thoughts? Um, well, just, you know,sort of a thing I was thinking about isit sounds like when whenever you'retrying to,you know, do a new automation, you startby thinking about what is a lightweightskill that I should create. Is thatcorrect?>> Right. Exactly. What's the MVP?>> Yeah. So, you start with like alightweight skill. Um, you test it andthen from there you're probably like,"Okay, here's what went wrong. here iswhat could be better that sort of thing>> right exactly just fine-tuning you knowdebug like I think the design thinkingprocess around all of this is superimportant of like okay if I want tobuild a car maybe the first thing I doisn't to build the frame of the car oryou know to build um you know the wholebody of the car that's not the first thefirst thing I should do if I want tobuild a car. Well, why do I want tobuild a car? Well, I want to build a carto go from point A to point B. Oh, okay.So, really, maybe I should start bybuilding a skateboard.How can we accomplish the task to getthe get the dream out the dream outcome?And um and sometimes that means likestarting with something that'scompletely different than the end state.Um so, this is done here. I think itinterrupted itself. probably a contextthing. But now we can actually what wecan do. This is all live. So we'reyou're seeing this in real time. You[snorts] can literally there's a coupleways to go about this. You can actuallyinstall cloud code into this computerand have it build out uh the automationin here or we can just ask this agent todo it for us. So let's see. Um I want tobuild a computer use agentthat does this exact thing.uh but more programmaticallyusing the Orgo API docsand I paste that here. What do we needto get started and we send that off? Allright, here we go. So, we need an OrgoAPI key. Here's the architecture of whatwe'll build.Okay, this looks good.Um orgo [clears throat] key, anthropickey. It has all the code here.Cool. Um, you're looking at a Tik Tokvideo. Extract the username, videodescription, the category, theappropriate like count. Boom, boom,boom. Okay, cool. So, [snorts] I haveall these things already. And don'tworry, I'm going to delete these keys.So, I'm not worried about leaking oranything. I'm going to copy my Orgo APIkey. I'm going to paste it in there. AndI'm going to sayOrgo API key. I also have my enthropickey. Let me grab that. I'm going topaste that here. Can we build this out?And so now we're going to have our ourplayground mode build out this computeruse agent to be able to go do this thingthat we just tested out. We know itworks. We know we can do it. Let's turnit into something that could be moreprogrammatic, kind of like a skill. Andlet's give it to Claudebot so it alwayshas access to it.>> The dream.>> The dream.It's literally any idea you have, youcan just build it.>> And that's sort of the arbitrageopportunity, right? Especially like inour world, of course, like we're so usedto this now. Uh even though it's onlybeen like two months. Uh but you knowthe opportunity is the vast majority ofpeople on this planet and businesseswould love to have better automation andwould love to,you know, have computer use agentsworking for them aka really goodemployees working for them. Um but theydon't know how. And so I think which iswhich is cool that you're like you'reshowing us like some of the bestpractices on on how to do it.>> Exactly. didn't.>> And I think this is also like I I canimagine, you know, the the wholeaudience of this podcast, we're allpretty techsavvy. We know how to dothings like vibe code and and and youknow, play around with cloud code and beable to do these things and we take itfor granted in terms of what that valueis worth.>> Um,>> as far as like OpenClaw and theopportunity around that, I mean,OpenClaw started going viral on Twitteraround two to three weeks ago. only nowis it starting am I'm starting to seeit's starting to go viral on Tik Tok alittle more mainstream. So umyeah I I just mean you know people arecatching on and a lot of people stillneed help with getting you know up andrunning on this type of stuff and whatyou might think is oh I mean I have abasic understanding of open cloud andcloudbot and cloud code uh and you mightunder underwrite that. a lot of peoplefind that valuable. So, being able tohelp businesses adopt it or just peoplein general, I think it's super goodopportunity. Um,>> yeah, I think my only advice for peoplewould be tof focus like don't be everything toeveryone. Likedon't don't help any every business.help real estate agents, for example, orlike pick a vertical that maybe you havesome unfair advantage for someparticular reason. And that unfairadvantage doesn't necessarily mean youhave 20 years of experience. It mightmean just that you know you want tobuild something for uh real estateagents cuz your mom was a real uh a realestate agent. So you you know you knowthe customer, right? Um so I thinkthat's that's the way to do to do this.Absolutely. Yeah, it's it's um whateveryou know that's your advantage. And Imean I guess as far as like some maybethis doesn't apply to everyone.Obviously if you're in this industrythen go for it. But like you knowprobably things to avoid things that arehave a lot of like red tape likehealthcare, finance, you know Irecommend maybe start in something.>> Yeah. like you said um you know youcould do even manufacturing or or uhthere's a lot of distributorships outthere who you know they distribute uhmerchandise um just like the the demo Iwas showing earlier of that computer usea agent working um so yeah I I think asfar as you know doing doing what youknow and starting there and then themarket will tell you you know the marketwill pull you into specific verticalsyou'll start seeing ways that as youbuild these spec this is a Great point.As you build out these specificworkflows around these verticals of likelet's say you do, you know, let's sayyou do the manufacturing thing and youdo manufacturing for doors. Um over timeyou're going to have a workflow foralmost like every kind of thing youcould imagine in that industry. And ifyou have the agents all built out, canyou imagine you have a workspace and youinvite uh you know some some new companyinto this workspace that uh for forautomations, for manufacturing, fordoors, like luxury doors and you invitethem and they have all these AIemployees in the workspace in Orgo setup ready to go. You just see them allhere and they're all ready to go. It'slike you feel like you just hired not aperson but a team. Um, I think that'sthat's that's a very near future. Infact, I don't think there's anythingstopping us from having that right now.It's all about just, you know, who'sgoing to go out there and and put in thework to actually do that. And if you do,I think it's I mean, it's it's prettyclear.>> Yeah. I mean, and that's that's why Itruly believe that, you know, agents arethe new SAS, like you know what I mean?So, yes, I agree with the like thevision you painted. I think that, youknow, in the past, you know, we createdsoftware that we would sell to thesebusinesses and then they would havepeople actually,you know, press the buttons, touch theknobs to to make it useful. Now, youdon't you're not going to createsoftware and invite them to thesoftware. You're going to create agentsand you're going to invite them to theagents and then the agents are going todo work that creates value for thesecompanies. So that's the mindset shiftandyou know it's it's only recentlyactually that people have been you knowI think over the last like two weeks Iwould say 2 3 weeks that people havebeen likeon X talking about this um h how agentsare the new SAS but I I do think that umlike over you're going to see over thenext two to three months like somereally big winners um and you're goingto start to see it work. So, I'm excitedfor people listening because I thinkthat um this is the a type of audiencethat will act on some of this stuff andit'll be interesting to see what whathappens.>> Yeah. Yeah. I I I think it was it was itSam Alman that just said, you know,every company is turning into an APIcompany.>> Yeah. And that's interesting becauseinterfaces are in a sense dying in thatway of like you know you won't interactlike the ultimate interface for whateverreason seems to be chat and text messageand it's happened twice now of like okaythe chat GPT moment was a chat box andnow it's the openclaw moment which islike a text message or telegram so it'slike okay chat has happened twice um andthat just means okay so we just want towait for our agent to be able to use allthe tools that we use and we don'treally care about how it does it. Itjust needs to be able to do it and andit runs in in the background um and doesit under the hood. Umso here, okay, I started uh I built youcan see that this agent in theplayground built out the Tik Tokagent.pyinside the computer. So now I askedOpenClaw, hey um I built a Tik Tokagent.py in your desktop. Can you take alook? And it's re it says, "Okay, I'veread it. Here's what I see. Uh there's askeleton for, you know, using Orgo umplus uh Anthropics API."Go ahead, Greg.>> No, you keep going.>> And and it was and it was um you know,all all the actual Tik Tok logic, uhtrend detection, all this stuff. Um it'slike, okay, maybe we should build thatout.>> And it's like, oh, you got the API keyshardcoded, etc., etc. So, let's just sayLet's use this script build on top of itor whatever you need to doand let's spin up a orgo VM inside ofthe Greg Eisenberg workspaceto accomplish this um automation withTik Tok.Let's demo it just working.We can spawnauh sub aent and VM in this workspace.And let me just give it a API key justin case it needs that.What really blows my mind about thiswhole thing is that,you know, I was going to say we we'rewe're building a business in a veryshort amount of time, but it's reallylike we're building an asset. like theamount of assets that people are goingto be be buildingum using tools like this is is going tobe crazy, right?>> It's insane. Honestly, it comes down tolike honestly like it comes down totaste now. Good ideas. Um [laughter]cuz like if you have a good idea, itcould just build it and yeah there'sthere's going to be like oh my goodnesswhat's going to happen with all of theseassets like you said that people arejust going to build and build and build.There's going to be so many assets. Ithink is this what is this what we meanwhen we talk about the um the abundancethat AI will bring you know of solvingall these problems?>> Yeah. Well, I think what ends uphappening is,you know, unfortunately, there are goingto be more and more layoffs as AI helpswith productivity. At the same time, Ithink there's going to be arenaissance, the golden age ofentrepreneurship and people creatingassets, products like this, onepersonbusinesses, anduh that's how I see it playing out.>> Yeah. even even maybe may we don't knowofficially but maybe it's alreadyhappened with Peter Steinberger thecreator of openclaw you know he he justum officially announced he's joiningopen AAI>> like I think it was just him who builtOpen Claw how much did he get you knowaqua hired for I think it was a lot>> um>> so that's that's I mean that's that'scool I think this is the best time to bea builder tinkerer to get creativeUm, I I'm excited to see what peoplebuild with Open Claw and computer useagents in general of likethere's so many things, you know,whether it's a a super fast chesscomputer use agent or if it's somethingthat's genuinely driving an outcome inyour business. Like I just think there'sso many things that can be built. Um,playing around with these tools, gettingfamiliar, learning how to how toleverage them. Yes, AI is going to bereplacing a lot of jobs, but also it'sgoing to enable a lot of people to dothings, you know, that they've neverbeen able to build before, and now theycan do it. So, um,yeah, I'm I'm just Oh, here it is. Okay,so you can see>> it spun up this computer, Tik Tok TrendHunter, and my screen's just refreshing.Uh, let me just click into itand and I could just tab back and fortha little bit to see. Okay, VM is up.It's opening Firefox. Let me wait forthe agent loop to start. Here we go. So,it's spun up its own computer. This isinsane, Greg. It's spun up its owncomputer.OpenClaw did. And now it's it's usingits own Python script that it just madejust now. We took it from idea browser.And now it's going to go do this thing.[laughter]um that we just built out. I don't knowhow long this took. Last like 10 minuteskind of just, you know, in between we'retalking, having our coffee. It's like[laughter]this is insane. I don't know. It kind ofIt makes me It gets me giddy. It's like[laughter and gasps]uh and it's going to figure this out.It's like, you know, it's going to debuglike, okay, what's going on? Why am I onthe ads.tiktock.com? Let me reroutemyself. I'm sure it's going to figureall this out. Uh, but it's just cooking,you know.>> Crazy, dude.Crazy. Anything else you want to coverbefore we head out?Yeah, I think um as far as other thingsto cover, I meanI I just want people to start thinkingabout these tools, you know, yes,they're they're once again they're greatpersonal assistance, but if you startthinking of OpenClaw as an NAN or[clears throat] you start thinking of itas um you know, like a Lindy AI of likeyou know people there are realbusinesses right now like we can go toUpwork right now and find jobs that arebeing posted around, you know, thingslike this. This is what you do. You justgo to Upwork. Upwork's great because youget to see what the market's asking forand you just type in uh robotic processautomation. you know, this old outdatedway of of programmatically automatingtasks that is like clunky and it breaksand it's not intelligent. If the buttonisn't in the exact UI space that youjust delegated it to, it won't work. Andyou go here, look, posted yesterday,Android RPA automation posted yesterday,automation pipeline for client upload.You go here. You could just do let'slet's find $500, $1,000, $5,000. Let'slook at all these projects. Okay, thisone. Boom. Right here. Um $1,000 budget.I'm looking for experienced automationengineer to build desktop automationcomputer use uh for my softwarebusiness. We sell a specialized dynamicPDF. You take all this context, give itto open cloud, give it to Claude code.How much of it can you build out as ademo based off of this context alone?Send a proposal. You have your firstcustomer right here, $1,000.Um, get get some case studies, leveragethat. Maybe go deeper into this industrythat this person's in. Start buildingout specialized workflows using cloudbotopen claw for all the different verticaluse cases in that. Create a workspace ofit. Um, I think that's where we're atright now and I'm excited by this. So,um, yeah, I I guess we'll just see whereit goes. And yeah, okay, this needs alittle debugging as to be expected. Wespent 10 minutes on it, but I think youget the gist. Um, and yeah, I'm excitedto see what everyone builds.>> From your lips to God's ears, baby. II'mI think your approach makes completesense. Um, it's the exact approach Iwould use. Totally recommend it. people,get your hands dirty, get tinkering. I'mexcited for what you build. Um, Nickdoesn't do a lot of podcasts. Um, Ithink I was only able to find him do onelive stream before. So, show him somelove in the comment section. Uh, likethe video. Um, show him some love and,um, Nick, I hope you come back on. Uh,share more use cases. I'm going to besharing more use cases that I'm usingthat my you know I haven't done uh toomany publicly but I'm going to besharing more of my use cases both onvirtual machines and on my own Mac Miniuh for my open claw stuff. So get readyfor that folks. And uh Nick wait isthere anything is there is thereanything else before before we go thatyou want that you want to share? I justwant to share with you, Greg. You don'tknow this, but I've been a longtimefollower.>> This is my YouTube Rewind 2025 top.5%.So, if you're watching this and you loveGreg's podcast, you love his videos, youyou get building on top of it, you putcool stuff out there, you know, you joinyour you join your top YouTube channelon your on your re your rewind of theyear.>> I love it. I love it. Nick, you're alegend. You got to come back on. You'reone of us. You're one of us. So, uh,appreciate I appreciate that. Thank you,Greg. Thank you for having me.