Today I'll be teaching you how to be anonline stalker. Sorry, I mean Osen,open- source intelligence. I know whyyou're on this video. You want to findout about somebody, maybe a boy or agirl that you like, and you want to gettheir Instagram ID, their phone number,the email address, basically being acrave, huh?Just kidding. Maybe it's for otherthings. Maybe it's for hacking. Maybeyou're trying to find out who are the ITadministrators in an organization andyou want to fish them. So whatever thecase is, we're using publicly availableinformation to find out about all thesedetails, about all this data. And thenafter that, you can perhaps even findtheir username and passwords online.That's how crazy it is. And you want towatch to the end because I'll show yousomething super cool, a super cool toolthat can automate all of this for you.You are so sus. And not just that,what's the purpose? Why do we want to doopen source intelligence? What do wewant to search about something likesomeone? A username, a phone number andpossibly right, it could be a scammer.>> I will look for you. I will find youand I will kill you.>> And the scammer send you an email orthey call you up and you're thinkinglike, "Hey, is there a way for me tofile more about this specificattribute?" And from this singleattribute, we can build out the entireidentity and blueprint of that person ofthat sake scammer of that possibly anlegitimate individual by using publiclyavailable data. So we're looking atthings like going to Google search,Facebook, Instagram, social mediaaccounts, and even going deeper. So ifyou're doing more kind of enterpriseopen source intelligence search, what wecan do here is we can find out say forexample who registered the domain, whoowns the website, what are all of theemail addresses that's available andthen we can crawl through on the site.So we're doing all of that very veryquickly, very cleanly and we can thenuncover possibly some other juicyinformation too. Now before we go anyfurther, you have to put on your blackhat. Sorry, I mean your thinking hat. sothat we can go ahead and do some superinteresting stuff on the internet. Let'sgo. All right. So, the very first thingyou need is a computer. I mean, withouta computer and without an internetconnection, how are you even watchingthis video? That's crazy. So, the firstplace you go to is go to google.com. Andwhat Google does for us is that it is asearch engine and it has all thisdifferent crawlers. It crawls throughthe entire internet getting all thisdifferent data, getting all thisinformation. And all we have to do hereis to specify more specific on ourkeywords. So say for example, I want tolook up on this person called Ly LeangYang. I hit enter on this, right? Andyou can see right here we have somedata. We have some information. So thisis a very handsome hacker. And you cansee here when I scroll down further, wecan see a bunch of information likeInstagram, YouTube, LinkedIn. All right,Facebook and all this different data. Sovery quickly, we can uncover informationabout this specific person. And why wewant to put a double quote over here asyou can see is because this means thatwe want a specific result that matchesthis keyword here. Okay, if I do notenter with the double code, then what isgoing to happen here is we are going tosee a bunch of other results too. Allright, because it's going to separatesay for example some of these keywordsinto something like this. So it givesyou similar results all right instead ofspecific results. So that's somethingthat you have to be very careful of. Andto teach you even further, what I'mdoing here is called Google searchoperators. All right. So here if Iscroll down further, you can see thefollowing. There are filters that we canuse. So for example, all right, the webfilter contains textbased links towebsite. All right. Exact filters andthe order in which they appear isdynamic and so forth. So if I scrolldown further, you can see the following.We can also specify certain, forexample, in this case, a search willwork. All right? So we can look out forspecific sites. All right? So if you'relooking for say something on Reddit, youcan put site Reddit or if you're lookingsomething on pace bin, you can easily dothat too. And you can see the following.We can also have a search for a specificsite. So we have site like YouTube.comcat videos. All right. And we canexclude words from our searches by usingsay the minus sign. So here in this casewe can say minus car. So any of thesearch results that contain the word carwill not appear. All right. So this isan example of where we can haveexclusion. Next up, what I'm doing overhere is to combine a bunch of keywords.All right, so I have gmail.com, I havepassword, and I have the file type oftxt. So, we're looking specifically forcertain file type. So, you can alsochange this not just to txt, which isfor text file. You can also change it toSQL, which is structured query language.You can change it to docx, pdf, pptx.So, you can change the different type offiles that you want returned as the listof results. All right, so this isamazing. And what are we trying to dohere? What we're trying to do here is tofigure out, hey, could there besensitive faults that we can look outfor? And of course, all you have to dois to change this more specifically. Soto say micro jordan@gmail.com.So if you're looking out for someone,you can use this specific email address.And a lot of our passwords are alreadysomewhere on the internet. So if you canfind out someone's email, you'll be ableto enter the following. And then fromthere, you can figure out, hey, what isyour password? And lock right in. Thisis what exactly open source intelligencesearch can help you accelerate in termsof say possibly gaining account access.So for example I found Mr. Heckle'sYouTube channel and right here under thedescription if I scroll down further youcan see the following on view emailaddress. So when I click onto this weidentify his email address and all wehave to do is just basically copy thisemail address and then after that supplyit back into Google search and fromthere we could possibly find hispassword. That's crazy. And for exampleover here I have another result that hasbeen returned from Google search. And ifI scroll down further you can see thefollowing right we have the insert into.All right in this case we have like adatabase table and we have ID user IDusername and password. So column 3 isthe username and column 4 is thepassword. So if I see over here from oneof the inserts we can see that we havethe following of this username and apassword of 1 2 3 654. How about anotheruser JV user JV1988.All right. So all this a pretty securepassword I think.However, not all the time you get like apassword directly. So for example inthis case if I scroll down further wecan see like we have all these differentusernames on the left and all theiremail addresses on the right and rightin the center is a protected password.All right. So the password went throughsome kind of algorithm and we're unableto get the plain text password which isa little troublesome for us but we areno script kitty. All right. We areprofessional hackers and we have todemonstrate. So, so what we can do hereis use something called a rainbow tableattack. So, we use those commonly usedpasswords and we throw them intocommonly used algorithms to protect thispasswords and then look it up reversely,right? And see what we get. So, forexample, over here I have password thatis being placed into the MD5 hashgenerator. So, MD5 is one of thosealgorithms that could possibly be in useto better secure these passwords on abackend database. And of course, this isa password I used to. And you saying,"Hey, why is Mr. Hacker Loy such arenown professional hacker usingpassword as password? It's becausepeople have the presumption that I wouldbe using some super complex passwordthat is like 100 or 200 characters longand I could possibly remember it and itwould have a mix of symbols, upper lowercases, and so on. I don't reversepsychology." And now I throw in one ofthose commonly used password into thishash generator and I click generate. AndI have the MD5 hash value over here. Orin other cases, they could be using SH1.All right. And typically this is kind ofnot in use anymore, but that could beall right. Some customu applicationsthat could be using something asinsecure as this. And I can copy theinformation here and I head back overinto that list of credentials. I do asearch. And what do we get? All right,we get that this specific user has thepassword of password. And we have atotal of 34 matches, which is prettycrazy because that's a lot of users. Andif they usethe same password that has been exposedhere into their email account,we could possibly lock right in. Mhm.And here is another super cool tool Iwant to show you, which is to use thisscript called my grad. All I have to dois enter my grad followed by say LyLeang Young. Hit enter on this. And whatit does for us is that it will searchthrough this specific alias or usernameinto this commonly used social mediasites and tell us give us a report. Hey,does this specific username exists inall those different sites? So you cansee for example over here we have thingslike YouTube user, we have things likeTik Tok. All right, Telegram and so onso forth. And of course not all of themare me.They could be scammers. All right, whoare masquerading as me. So you have tobe careful about what you find onlinetoo because especially for people whoare a little more prominent. So righthere is Mr. on Instagram and this is notme. All right, I know that's blueverify. All right, there is the 300over,000 followers on Instagram. This isnot me. Okay, and I have no idea howmany people have been scammed by thisperson. All right, who is using myphotos, videos, and so on. So becareful. So what we can do here is to doa reverse image search. All right. So insituation where you are looking at aspecific user and they're looking alittle more sus. So what you want to dohere is do a right click open image innew tab. Okay. And you can copy thislink. And what we do next is we'll goover into google.com and there is abutton over here called search by image.So you select onto that. You have twooptions. The first option you can dragan image upload a file directly here andGoogle lens will help to analyze that.The other option over here is to justgive it the image link. So I selectedonto the image link and it will allow usto add this to our search. Okay. So oncewe're done with that and add avisualization to things. All right.Let's give it a minute to search and youcan see right here. Okay. So we have theimage on the top left corner and theperson in the image is this specificindividual. All right. And if I scrolldown further now we get the link. So ifyou look at a specific person could be ascammer and so on and you want to findout more information about that personthat individual all you have to do isjust upload your image onto Googlesearch and they will give you moredetails of this person. So possibly allright the actual Facebook the legitimateFacebook link Instagram Tik Tok whateverand then from there you can startbuilding a profile and identity of thatindividual. At the same time, if you getsome kind of call and you have no ideawho is the caller, all you have to do isto copy the phone number directly overand to search again. And from here, allright, for example, I have a dummy phonenumber over here. But if you have theactual phone number which you havereceived on your phone or your mobiledevice, you can just copy and paste thatinto the search and see what you get.And now, if you need more tools to helpyou do more searches, all you have to dois go over into osenframework.com.So over here for example if I want tolook out for email address I can selecton the email address email search allright so we have several options hereall right so we have for example likesalvar that's them hunter and so and soforth if I want to do people searchengines I can select again look forregistries so they give you the directlink to all these different tools sitesthat you can use to help you advanceyour searches now there's another supercool resource that we can use and inthis situation if Go over toexploit-db.com.There's something called Google HackingDatabase. Go ahead and click on that.You can see right here, these are allthe keywords that other authors or usershave used and they've published it overhere that simply copy and paste intoGoogle search to find some interestingstuff. Like for example, you have thefollowing of files containing passwords,various online devices. So if you wantto connect to some online devicesparticularly like web cameras evenmobile devices by the way vulnerableservice all right juicy information youcan easily just simply copy thiskeywords over here as is and paste themover in Google search and you get abunch of results okay so say for exampleI go over into files containingpasswords category I select onto thatand let's see what we got all right sowe have following of index of pwdball right so we can say copy this. Okay.And I go over into the search and let'ssee what we get. Okay. So we have likeindex of /pwd. All right. Index of pagesand so on. And then we have othercombinations. All right. Like paste bin.Paste bin is going to be prettyinteresting too. So I can copy this overhere. All right. We have pass.txt. Ipaste it. And this is looking forresults only from pastbean.com. Allright. And in the text we have forexample pass.t txt. Okay, so this is anexample of that or I can change this upa little bit and possibly enter passwordand see what we get as well and we havethe following information. Okay, so thisis an example of how we can very quicklysearch for credentials and then all youhave to do is if you're looking forspecific individual and from yourearlier searches, you found the person'semail address. All you have to do onceagain is enter the email address of theperson. So say for example, lyanglyang.com.Hit enter on this and see what you get.OC is so easy. It's basically onlinestalking and it's a little too easy. Andthink about how much more informationyou can get if you spend hours searchingabout someone, searching about anenterprise, an organization.Let me know what interesting stuff youfound.