This  presentation  is  delivered  by  the Stanford  Center  for  Professional Development.  All  righty.  So,  with  that said,  I  want  to  do  just  a  tiny  little bit  of  wrap  up  on  what  we  talked  about. memory  and  this  whole  notion  of  pointers last  time  and  go  into  our  next  great topic.  All  righty.  So,  time  for  our  next great  topic.  Well,  we  need  to  do  a little  bit  of  pointers  first.  So,  the first  example  is  something  that  we talked  about  very  briefly  last  time,  but I  want  to  make  sure  everyone's  sort  of on  board  with  this.  So,  if  I  have  our friend  the  point  that  we  talked  about last  time,  which  is  just  a  class  that stores  two  values,  an  x  and  a  y  that  we pass  into  the  constructor.  When  we  do something  like  this,  I'll  draw  it  sort of  over  on  this  board.  And  I'm  going  to draw  it  in  a  actually  I'll  draw  it  over here  and  I'll  draw  it  in  a  way  that  we don't  need  to  worry  about  all  the  memory addresses  and  overhead  and  all  that stuff  cuz  that  sometimes  makes  the diagrams  a  little  bit  ugly.  And  so  I'll show  you  the  very  simple  stylized version  of  keeping  track  of  the  stack and  the  heap.  So  over  here  is  the  heap. Over  here  is  the  stack.  And  what  we're going  to  do  is  say  hey  when  we  declare point  P1  before  we  have  done  this  new what  we  get  is  P1  which  is  basically just  some  box  on  the  stack.  What  does  it hold  right  now?  Well,  until  we  do  this line,  it  holds  nothing.  It  holds  nothing that  we  know  about.  Okay,  when  we  call this  new,  it  says,  "Hey,  heap,  get  me some  new  memory  for  a  point."  So,  the heap  kind  of  goes  over  here  and  goes boink,  here's  some  memory  for  a  point. And  it  calls  the  constructor  and  says, "Hey,  constructor,  put  in  the  values one."  So,  somewhere  on  the  heap,  we  have the  values  one  and  one  for  our  little private  x  and  our  private  Y  somewhere  on the  heap.  And  the  value  that  new  gives back  that  we  assign  to  P1  is  the  address of  this  thing.  Remember,  we  don't  really care  about  where  in  memory  this  thing's actually  stored.  And  so  sometimes  what we  like  to  do  is  just  keep  track  of addresses  by  pointer.  So  we  know  that this  is  just  some  memory  address  over here  where  this  particular  object's actually  stored  on  the  heap.  Okay.  So now  if  we  do point P2,  actually  let  me  not  let  put  the semicolon  on  yet.  If  we  do  point  P2, what  we  get  is  on  the  stack,  we  get  some new  space  set  aside  for  P2  and  again  its beginning  value  is  unknown.  Now  we  have a  couple  options.  One  thing  we  could  do is  say  new  point  and  give  it  some  XY location  in  which  case  we'll  get  a  new point  on  the  heap  and  P2  will  point  to that  new  point.  We  could  do  something funky  like  say  hey  P2  equals  P1.  Well, all  that's  happening  there  is  saying take  the  value  that's  in  P1,  which  is  a pointer  over  to  this  location  on  the heap,  and  set  P2  equal  to  that.  So,  if this  happens  to  be  a  memory  location, you  know,  A ae,  this  guy  gets  a  AAE,  which  means  in our  sort  of  stylistic  representation, it's  pointing  to  the  same  place.  Okay, are  we  sort  of  on  board  with  that?  If you're  on  board  with  that,  nod  your head.  Excellente.  All  right.  So  now  if we  do  p2.move  and  we  tell  it  to  move  by an  amount  like  three,  four,  it  says, "Oh,  well  in  order  to  call  the  move method,  I  need  to  call  the  move  method using  the  object  P2.  Where  does  the object  P2  live?"  It  looks  it  up  through the  pointer  and  says,  "Here,  this  is where  you  live.  Call  the  move  method with  this  particular  object."  So  it passes  to  this  pointer  to  this  location in  memory.  And  it  says  move  3  4.  And  as you  saw  with  move  last  time,  all  move does  is  add  those  values  to  the respective  x  and  y.  So  px  becomes  4,  py becomes  5,  and  now  that  move  method's done.  And  interestingly  enough,  what I've  done  is  change  not  only  p2,  but also  p1  because  they're  pointing  to  the same  place  in  memory.  They're  the  same actual  point.  And  that's  the  important thing  to  keep  in  mind.  If  I  set  an object  equal  to  another  object  like this,  they  are  the  same  actual  object. There's  only  one  of  those  objects  that lives  somewhere.  and  I  really  have  two things  that  are  pointing  or  what  we  like to  refer  to  as  referring  to  that  object. So  oftent  times  we  refer  to  these  things as  references.  Okay.  Now  what  happens  if I  come  along  and  say point P3?  I  get  P3  over  here  on  the  stack. Right?  And  again  I'll  write  the  P3  over here  so  as  not  to  interfere  with  the lines.  And  I'll  draw  this  line  a  little bit  around  P3.  So  it  kind  of  goes  like that.  Says,  "Oh,  P3.  Yeah,  I  don't  want to  interfere  with  you.  I'm  just  going  to zigzag  around."  P3.  What  value  does  it start with?  I  don't  know.  It's  not  pointing  to an  object  yet  because  it  hasn't  been initialized  to  point  to  an  object. Hasn't  been  initialized  to  point  to  a new  object.  And  so  if  I  come  along  and say,  "Hey,  you  know what?  P3,  I  just want  to  move  you,  you  know,  move  to  4,  5 cuz  that's  where  I  hear  the  parties  at. That's  where  P1  and  P2  are.  Can  you  move yourself  to  four  comma  5?"  What  happens when  I  do  this? Bad  times.  That's  what  happens.  What  I get?  Well,  first  of  all,  I  get  a  social because  a  whole  bunch  of  people  said  it. But  what  I  get  is  this  thing.  Who  knows where  it's  pointing?  As  a  matter  of fact,  this  pointer  could  often  times  be something  we  refer  to  as  a  null,  which means  it's  not  pointing  to  any particular  object.  In  which  case,  when  I try  to  do  this,  I  get  what's  called  a null  dreference.  Anyone  happen  to  see something  called  a  null  d  reference while  you're  working  on  breakout?  Few folks.  Yeah.  This  is  what  you  were getting.  You  had  some  object  here  that wasn't  actually  pointing  anywhere  and you  were  trying  to  call  a  method  on  it. says,  "Hey,  I'm  trying  to  call  the  move method  on  P3."  And  P3  says,  "I  I  got nothing  for  you,  man.  I  I  got  nothing here."  You're  trying  to  move  something that  doesn't  exist.  So,  you're  trying  to dreference,  which  means  go  through  the reference.  Just  a  funky  name  for  go through.  We  say  dreference.  Um  something that  doesn't  exist.  Or  maybe  this  is just,  you  know,  has  some  random  value that's  pointing  off  somewhere  into memory  that  you  don't  know  about,  which isn't  actually  an  object.  Okay?  So that's  what  you  want  to  watch  out  for  is this  is  real  bad  times  if  you  actually happen  to  call  a  method  on  some  object which  doesn't  really  exist.  Okay.  Now the  other  thing  that's  important  about seeing  these  little  pointers  is  the  fact that  remember  when  we  talked  about parameter  passing  and  in  the  days  of  Y we  talked  about  parameter  passing  and  we said  this  little  thing  where  we  said  hey you  know  what  if  you  have  something  like an  integer  or  a  double  or  a  car  or  a boolean.  These  are  what  we  refer  to  as primitive types.  They're  like  hanging  around. They're,  you  know,  lower  on  the evolutionary  ladder.  They're  just  what we  refer  to  as  the  primitive  types.  When you  pass  primitive  types  as  parameters, what  you  are  getting  is  a  copy  of  the value  of  the  primitive  type.  Okay,  what does  that  mean?  It  means  when  I  call some  function  and  I  say,  hey  function, I'm  going  to  pass  to  you  a  three.  Like in  my  move  method  over  here,  I  pass  in  a three,  which  is  an  integer.  What actually  happens  when  I  make  this  method call  is  I  pass  a  copy  of  the  three.  And so  if  in  this  move  method  I  tried  to change  this  value  around  to  something else,  all  I'm  doing  is  changing  the copy.  I'm  not  changing  the  actual parameter  that  was  passed  in.  So  if  this wasn't  a  value,  let's  say  I  actually  had some  variables  here  like  X  and  Y.  And  up here  I  had  int  x  and  y.  When  I  make  this method  call,  I  get  copies  of  whatever values  are  in  the  boxes  for  x  and  y.  And so  if  move  tries  to  muck  with  x  and  y, all  it's  changing  is  the  copy.  It's  not changing  the  X  and  Y  out  here,  right? That's  what  we  talked  about  a  long  time ago  when  we  talked  about  little  Marron who  went  off  to  France  with  his  mom  and the  Mona  Lisa  and  he  wanted  to  take  a hacksaw  to  the  Mona  Lisa,  but  the  Mona Lisa,  he  just  got  a  copy  cuz  they  went to  the  gift  shop.  Yeah,  primitive  types, you  go  to  the  gift  shop.  Now,  something funky  happens  though  when  you're  dealing with  objects.  Okay,  so  when  you're dealing  with objects,  they  are  not  primitive  types, they  are  objects.  And  so  when  you  make  a method  call  where  you  pass  some  object along,  what  you  are  actually  doing  is you  are passing  the  object  or  actually  what  we refer  to  is  the  object reference.  What  does  that  actually  mean? What  that  means  is  let's  say  I  call  were to  call  some  method  over  here  where  I actually  pass  in  a  point.  So  let's  say there's  some  method  over  here  like  oh  uh move  well  I'll  call  it change  zero  which  is  supposed  to  set  a point  to  be  zero  and  I  pass  it  P1  and this  is  just  some  method  that  I  wrote and  maybe  the  the  elements  of  a  point are  actually  public  let's  say  as  opposed to  private.  So  this  function  can actually  access  those  things.  What happens  when  I  pass  P1?  Well,  what happens  when  I  pass  P1  to  this  change zero  method  or  this  change  zero  function is  I'm  passing  where  P1  lives.  So  the parameter  I  actually  pass  is  the  address that's  in  here.  So  if  the  address  that's in  here  is  let's  say  the  value,  you know,  A  0  0.  I  passes  my  parameter  a  0  0 which  means  what  I  have  is  a  reference because  I  have  that  pointer  to  where  P1 really  lives  in  memory.  Which  means  if this  method  decides  that  it's  going  to muck  around  with  P1  and  tell,  hey  P1, move  yourself  to  some  other  location, the  values  that  it's  going  to  change when  it  makes  method  calls  on  the parameter  that's  passed  in  is  at  this place  in  memory  because  it  knows  where this  place  in  memory  is,  right?  You  want to  think  about  when  you're  passing objects,  this  is,  as  we  talked  about  it before,  sort  of  like  the  mafia.  When  you pass  around  objects,  you're  talking  to the  mafia.  And  when  you  talk  to  the mafia,  they  know  where  you  live.  Okay? They  can  come  in  and  mess  with  you however  they  want.  They're  not  getting  a copy  of  you.  It's  not  like  you  go  to  the mafia  and  you're  like,  "Oh,  I'm  gonna send  my  cologne  along  to  the  copy  and you  know,  or  my  clone  along  to  the  mafia and  they'll  just  talk  with  them."  No. When  you're  gonna  go  talk  to  like  the godfather  or  the  godmother,  you're  not sending  in  your  clone.  You're  going  in yourself,  right?  And  you're  like,  "Hey, you  know,  Godfather  and  he's  like,  "Oh, you  come  here  on  the  day  of  my daughter's  wedding?  Anyone?  That's Anyone  seen  the  movie  The  Godfather? It's  It's  so  good.  If  you  haven't  seen it,  go  see  it."  Um,  but  we  won't  talk about  that  right  now.  But  what  we  will talk  about  is  the  fact  that  if  they  know where  you  live,  any  changes  you  make  are not  to  a  copy.  And  that's  a  critical idea  to  know.  This  is  what  we  refer  to up  here  as  pass  by  value  because  what you're  getting  is  just  a  copy  of  the value.  You're  not  getting  the  reference. This  is  what  we  actually  refer  to  as passing  by  object  reference.  So  I'll just  change  the  'the'  here  to  a  by, which  means  when  you  pass  objects around,  you're  passing  a  reference  to the  object.  You  know  where  the  object lives.  Here's  a  little  way  you  can  think about  it.  So  remember  our  story  about little  Maron  who  goes  to  see  the  Mona Lisa.  Think  about  it  this  way.  When little  Marron  went  to  see  the  Mona  Lisa again.  Here  is  the  Mona  Lisa  smiling. Here's  little Maron  bow-legged  Maron  ponytail chainsaw.  When  he  wants  to  actually  if the  Mona  Lisa  were  just  some  integer, right?  He's  going  to  go  to  the  gift  shop and  he's  going to  get  copies.  But  the Mona  Lisa  is  actually  something  that's really  valuable.  So  what  do  we  do  with the  Mona  Lisa?  It's  encapsulated  in  this big  safe  that's  an  object.  And  so  when we  want  to  say  send  the  Mona  Lisa  over to  like  the  MoMA  in  New  York,  not  that they  would  actually  display  it  at  the MoMA,  but  let's  say  we  send  it  to  the MoMA  in  New  York,  we're  sending  the actual  Mona  Lisa.  We're  not  sending  a copy  of  the  Mona  Lisa.  We're  sending  the actual  thing.  So  then  in  the  MoMA  in  New York,  Marilyn  comes  along  and  says, "Hey,  you  know  what?  Security  is  much more  lax  here.  I'm  just  going  to  chop this  thing  up."  So  it  takes  the  chainsaw to  the  Mona  Lisa  and  chops  it  up.  And that's  the  real  Mona  Lisa.  So  when  we're done  with  it  being  displayed  at  the  MoMA and  it  goes  back  to  our  friend  the Louver  in  Paris.  So  here  it  is  in  Perry. Yeah.  It's  still  sliced  in  half.  Bad times.  Major  international  incident. Okay.  Don't  let  this  happen  to  you.  If you're  going  to  mess  with  an  object that's  passed  around  to  know  that  you're changing  the  actual  object.  Okay.  So  one thing  you  might  say  about  this  is  you said  hey  Maron  you  were  saying  talking about  Mona  Lisa  encapsulating  that  in  an object.  So  if  I  have  some  integer  and  I actually  wanted  to  change  it  could  I create  an  object  around  an  integer  and then  pass  the  object  and  allow  someone else  to  change  the  integer  inside  that object.  Would  that  work?  Yeah.  In  fact that  would  interested  in  doing  that. There's  an  example  that  does  exactly that  on  page  235  of  the  book  just because  it's  important  to  memorize  every single  page  of  the  book.  But  it's  there. Okay.  I  just  had  to  check.  Yeah,  it's 235.  So,  just  something  you  should  know. So,  any  questions  about that?  All  righty.  So,  last  but  not least,  one  other  thing  I  should  mention since  we're  on  the  subject  of  saying, "Hey,  why  not  take  one  of  these primitive  types  and  encapsulate  it inside  a  class?"  It  turns  out  Java actually  has  a  bunch  of  classes  already built  in  which  are  encapsulations  of these  data.  So  for  an  int  there  is something  called  integer  with  a  capital I  in  the  full  word  which  is  actually  a class  that  is  a  class  that  stores  a single  integer.  The  only  unfortunate thing  about  this  class  is  you  would  say hey  now  I  can  create  integers  and  I  can pass  around  an  integer  and  change  the integer.  Right?  This  class  doesn't actually  give  you  any  methods  to  change the  value.  So  it  doesn't  get  you  the effect  you  want.  We'll  use  them  later  on in  the  quarter  for  something  different. But  just  so  you  know  these  exist  there's a  double  and  then  there's  the  class version  which  is  actually  uppercase double.  So  Java  is  case-sensitive  and  if you  ever  put  uppercase  double  you  would actually  have  been  using  the  class version  of  it.  Similarly  with  boolean there's  boolean  and  there's  uppercase boolean.  And  then  with  car  it's  a  little bit  different.  We  have  car  over  here  and here  it's  the  full  word  character  is  the class.  So  these  are  sort  of  the  class equivalents.  These  are  the  primitive equivalents  for  everything  we're  doing so  far.  Unless  you  get  told  to  use  the class  equivalent  just  use  the  primitive equivalent  and  life  will  be  good.  This is  just  kind  of an  artifact  of programming  languages.  Sometimes  in  life things  just  happen  to  happen  this  way and  you  get  two  versions  of  something  um just  because  that's  the  way  life  is. Okay.  But  these  class  versions  remember like  strings  we  said  strings  were immutable.  You  can't  actually  change  the string  in  place.  All  you  can  do  is create  a  new  one.  These  classes  are  all also  immutable.  Once  you  create  an integer  and  give  it  some  initial  value you  can't  change  that  initial  value.  If you  want  to  say,  hey,  I  want  to  take that  value  and  add  one,  you  need  to create  a  new  object  of  type  integer which  has  the  old  value  plus  one  added to  it  and  you  get  a  new  object.  So they're  immutable  in  the  same  way strings  are  immutable.  You  create  new ones.  You  can't  change  the  value  once you've  gotten  a  initial  value.  So  any questions  about this  or  any  questions  about  this  whole notion  of  pointers  and  references  and passing  the  stuff  around  as parameters?  Because  if  not,  it's  time for  our  next  great  topic.  And  our  next great  topic  is  something  that  really  is a  great  topic  in  computer  science because  it's  something  you've  been  doing this  whole  time.  And  now  it's  time  to lift  up  the  covers  and  say,  "Hey,  you know what?  There  are  some  much  more dangerous  things  you  can  do  than  you've been  doing  right  now."  So  before  we  sort of  gave  you  the  safety  scissors  where you  know  that  has  like  the  rounded corners  and  they're  like  rubber. Remember  safety  scissors?  They  were  fun. I  like  safety  scissors.  Now  basically  we take  the  safety  scissors,  we  take  them to  the  mill,  we  sharpen  them  up  real sharp.  We  have  you  hold  them  up  and  run with  them.  Okay,  so  here's  where  things get  dangerous. Files.  You're  going  to  learn  how  to  read and  create  files  as  well,  which  means the  opportunity  to  erase  files  or  write over  them,  which  is  why  things  get dangerous.  But  it's  really  not  that dangerous  as  long  as  you're  careful, right?  When  you're  running  with scissors,  just  point  them  down  and things  will  be  Why  people  ran  with scissors  just  made  no  sense  to  me. But  like,  I  really  need  to  go  cut  this piece  of  paper.  Come  on,  we're  all going.  It's  the  like  paper  cutting marathon.  All  right.  So,  files.  What  is a  file?  You've  used  files  the  whole time,  right?  When  you  created  some program  like  you  had  my program.  Java  that  was  just  stored  in some  file  somewhere  and  you  when  you write  a  paper,  you  know,  in  your favorite  Microsoft  your  favorite Microsoft  your  favorite  word  processor, which  may  or  may  not  be  a  Microsoft product,  you're  creating  a  file.  Okay? And  in  Java,  you  should  be  able  to create  files  and  read  files  as  well.  So, that's  something  we're  going to  do.  And the  first  thing  we're  going  to  think about  is  reading  files.  Now,  the  files we're  going  to  think  about  reading  are not  necessarily  Java  files.  We're actually  going  to  think  about  just  plain text  files.  And  often  times  you'll  see these  things  as,  you  know,  it'll  have some  name  followed  by  a  dot  followed  by txt,  which  is  kind  of  the  extension  that means  text.  But  that's  what  we're  going to  deal  with  is  just  files  that  contain a  bunch  of  characters  without  any  of  the characters  being  like  special  meaning characters  or  anything  like  that.  So, the  way  we  think  about  a  file,  let  me just  draw  a  file  up  here  cuz  life  is cheap.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  I'll  show you  a  little  file  on  the  computer.  Wake up.  Don't  worry,  it'll  come  back.  It'll just  take  a  moment.  Wake  up,  little  guy. Yeah,  it's  it's  time  for  your  starving roll.  Here's  a  file.  Just  want  to  say  a students  rock  the  house.  There  can  be  no doubt  about  doubt  about  it.  Doubt  it. There's  I  put  two  doubts  in  there.  I don't  know  why  I  just  did.  All right. They're  It's  one  of  those  little  things like  springtime  in  the  Paris.  Remember that  little  puzzle?  No.  All right.  Let's not  worry  about  it.  When  something  is the  beginning  and  ending  of  a  line,  the human  brain  is  just  likely  to  convolve it  and  think  there's  only  one  there. Random  psychology  lesson  for  the  day. Thank  you.  Let's  move  on.  Here's  a little  file.  It's  a  text  file.  It  just contains  a  bunch  of  lines  of  characters. The  way  we  like  to  think  about  files  is that  we're  going  to  process  a  file  one line  at  a  time.  And  we  read  files sequentially,  which  means  we  tell  the computer,  hey,  here's  the  file  that  I want  to  start  reading.  It  says,  okay, I'm  ready  to  read  the  file.  And  it starts  at  the  very  beginning  of  that file.  And  then  I  will  ask  the  computer line  by  line,  give  me  the  next  line  of the  file.  And  it'll  give  it  to  you  as  a string.  And  you  can  do  whatever  you  want with  that  string.  And  then  when  you  go to  read  the  next  line  of  the  file, you'll  get  the  next  line.  So  first you'll  get  CS  106A  students.  The  next time  you  ask  for  a  line,  you'll  get  rock the  house.  Then  there'll  be  there  can  be no  doubt.  Then  you'll  get  doubt  it.  Then you'll  get  some  indication  that  you've reached  the  end  of  the  file.  Okay.  So what  does  that  look  like?  All right.  And how  do  you  actually  do  this?  So  you're going  to  be  doing  this  for  oh  assignment number  four  hangman.  So  it's  a  good thing  to  know.  So  first  thing  you  want to  do  is  what's  referred  to  as  opening the  file.  Opening  the  file  basically means  you're  going  to  associate  some object.  You're  going  to  create  some object  which  is  actually  something  we refer  to  as  a  buffered  reader.  And you'll  see  an  example  of  that  in  just  a second.  You're  going  to  have  some  object that  essentially  corresponds  to  some actual  file  on  your  disc.  So  when  you open  a  file,  what  you're  doing  is saying,  I'm  going  to  have  some  object I'm  going  to  create  and  when  I  refer  to that  object,  I'm  actually  going  to  tell you  that  it's  referring  to  some particular  file  that's  on  my  disc  right now.  So  that's  opening  the  file.  It's creating  this  correspondence.  Then  the second  thing  you  do  is  you  basically read  the  file.  And  this  there's  multiple ways  of  reading  the  file,  but  we're going  to  focus  on  reading  a  file  line  by line  until  we've  read  as  much  of  the file  as  we  want.  Usually  the  whole  file. And  then  the  third  thing  you  need  to  do is  because  you  open  the  file,  you  need to  close  the  file,  which  basically  cuts this  correspondence  between  the  object and  the  file.  It  says,  "Okay,  I'm  done with  that  file  now.  This  object  is  no longer  referring  to  that  file.  This object's  kind  of  I'm  going to  be  done with  it."  Okay.  So,  in  order  to  use  some of  this  functionality,  I'll  show  you  the code  in  just  a  second.  There's  a particular  package  you  need  to  import called java.io,  which  stands  for  input  output. star.  So  at  the  top  of  your  program, you'll  have  an  import,  then  it  has  Java dot  just  the  letters  io.star  semicolon. Okay?  And  that'll  give  you  all  sort  of the  file  stuff.  So  how  do  we  actually  do one  of these  things  where  we're  we're going  to  open  a  file.  We're  going to read  its  contents  and  we're  going  to close  it.  It's  time  to  write  a  little code.  So  first  thing  we're  going  to  do is  we're  going  to  create  one  of  our friends,  the  buffered  reader.  So  we're going  to  have  some  object  that's  of  type buffered  reader.  And  this  is  just  a class  that  exists  in  Java.io.  That's  why you  import  that  package.  And  you're going to  be  able  to  refer  to  objects  of this  type.  So  buffered  reader,  I'll  just call  it  RD  for  reader  for  short.  And what  I'm  going  to  set  that  to  is  a  new buffered  reader.  So  this  is  going  to  be a  new  buffered  reader.  And  the  new buffered  reader  needs  some  parameter. And  here's  where  things  get  funky.  The type  of  parameter  it's  going  to  take  is something  called  a  file  reader.  That's  a special  kind  of  object  that  knows  how  to attach  itself  to  an  actual  file  on  disk. But  I  need  to  create  one  of  those.  So here's  the  idiom  for  how  I  create  it. The  idiom  is  just  sort  of  the  pattern you'll  always  see  in  programs.  I  say  new buffered  reader.  And  the  parameter  that I  pass  to  a  new  buffered  reader  is  a  new file reader  uppercase  R  new  file  reader.  And the  parameter  that  I  give  to  new  file reader  is  the  name  of  the  file  on  the disk.  So  if  the  file  on  the  disk  is called  like  in  this  example students.ext,  I'd  actually  give  it  here as  a  string students.txt.  I  need  a  space  for  a  few extra  PNS  there.  So  let  me  write  that  a little  bit  smaller. Students  txt  that's  the  end  of  the string.  Then  I  have  this  PN  close  that PN  and  another  PN  close  that  PN.  So  what it  does  it  says  create  a  new  file  reader which  basically  is  an  object  that associates  with  a  particular  file  on  the disk  and  that  object  is  what  gets  passed into  a  buffered  reader  and  the  buffer reader  is  what  you're  going  to  ask  to get  line  by  line.  So  you're  going to  say hey  buffer  reader  give  me  a  new  line  and it's  going  to  go  say  hey  file  reader  get the  line  from  that  file  and  get  it  back and  give  it  to  you.  Okay  so  this  is  just the  standard  idiom  you  always  see  in  the way  that  it's  written  and  you  can  put any  string  in  here  you  want.  As  a  matter of  fact  you  can  put  in  a  string  variable if  you  want.  Now,  after  you've  created that,  how  do  you  actually  read  from  the file?  So,  let's  have  a  while  loop that'll  read  in  every  line  of  the  file. So,  we'll  have  a  while  true  loop  because we're  going  to  keep  reading  until  we reach  the  end  of  the  file.  And  the  way we  read  this  is  we're  going  to  read  the file  line  by  line  and  each  line  is  just a  string.  So,  I'll  have  string  line.  I tell  the  buffered  reader  this  RD  object read  line  which  kind  of  looks  familiar to  you  cuz  it  sort  of  looks  like  reading a  line  from  the  user  but  in  fact  you're passing  the  read  line  message  to  the  RD object  which  means  get  me  a  line  from the  file  which  file  this  file  that  I created  the  correspondence  with  over here.  Okay.  Now  this  will  read  line  by line.  Every  time  I  call  RD  read  line  I'm going  to  get  in  some  the  next  line  from the  file.  What  do  I  get  when  I  reach  the end  of  the  file?  And  this  is  the  crucial thing.  One  thing  you  might  think  is  hey do  you  get  an  empty  string  like  do  you get  double  quote  double  quote?  No.  In fact  I  don't  because  the  my  file  could actually  create  contain  empty  lines  and I  don't  want  to  confuse  an  empty  line  in a  file  with  the  fact  that  I've  reached the  end  of  the  file.  So  the  way  I  signal reaching  the  end  of  the  file  is  remember a  string  is  just  an  object.  How  do  I refer  to  an  object  that  doesn't  exist? Null.  So  what  read  line  gives  me  back  if I  try  to  read  a  line  past  the  end  of  the file  is  it  gives  me  back  a  null.  It says,  "Hey,  there  is  no  string  here  for you  to  read."  And  the  way  I'm  going to indicate  that  to  you  is  to  give  you  back a  null.  So,  I  can  check  that  if  line  is equal  equal  to  null,  that  means  I've reached  the  end  of  the  file.  And  so,  I'm just  going  to  break  out.  Here's  my little  loop  and  a  half.  I'm  going  to break  out  of  this  while  loop.  And  if  I got  a  valid  line,  I'm  just  going  to print  it  to  the  the  screen.  So,  all  this code  is  going  to  do  is  take  some  file, read  it  line  by  line,  and  print  every line  to  the  screen.  And  since  every  line is  just  a  string,  I  can  just  do  a  print lin  to  the  of  line  and  that  will  write it  out  to  the  screen.  Okay,  so  any questions  about this?  Now  there's  one  thing  I  haven't done  yet.  Right  in  my  steps  over  here, I've  opened  the  file  because  I  created the  buffer  reader.  I've  read  the  file. Now  I  need  to  close  the  file.  So  after I've  done  reading  all  the  lines  from  the file,  let  me  move  my  brace  up  a  little bit  to  give  myself  room  for  this.  I  just say  RD.  I  refer  to  the  object  and  then  I say  close.  And  there's  no  parameters there.  And  that  kind  of  says,  I'm  done with  you.  Thanks.  Thanks.  You  know,  a buffered  reader.  You  did  good  work.  You got  me  all  the  lines  of  the  file.  And now  I'm  done  with  you.  So  I'm  just  going to  close  it  off.  Okay.  Question.  Just cycle  through  the  entire  program  without having Yeah.  Read  line  keeps  track  of  where  it is  in  the  file  itself.  So  every  time  you read  a  line,  it's  automatically  keeping track  of  where  it  is  in  the  file  and will  go  to  the  next  line.  Nice  catch.  So now  there's  another  thing  that  happens. And  you're  like,  "Oh,  good  times.  I'm all  ready  to  read  files,  right? almost  the  one  extra  thing  you  need  to know  about  and  this  is  the  part  where it's  just  kind  of  one  of  the stickinesses  of  programming  is  what happens  when  bad  things  happen  to  good people  you're  like  huh  what  does  that mean  well  what  that  means  is  let's  say  I come  along  and  I  say  hey  buffered  reader open  up  students  do  text  and  some  evil person  came  along  and  deleted  your students  text  file  and  so  this  guy's trying  to  create  a  correspondence between  this  buffered  reader  and students  text  and  it  says  There  is  no students.ext.  I  got  nothing  here.  What am  I  going to  do?  It  needs  to  signal that  back  to  you  somehow.  And  the  way  it signals  that  back  to  you  is  it  says, "Whoa,  this  is  just  something  that  I didn't  expect  at  all."  And  it  gives  you something  called  an  exception.  Okay,  so what  is  an  exception  and  what's  involved with  actually  getting  an  exception  and dealing  with  exceptions.  Okay,  so  the idea  here  is  what  we  refer  to  when  an exception  happens,  right?  Like  when  this guy  tries  to  look  up  this  file  and  the file  doesn't  exist  is  the  term  we  use  is it  throws  an  exception.  That's  just  life in  the  city.  All right.  So  let's  say  I'm the  buffer  file  reader  and  I'm  trying  to read  students.ext  and  students.te doesn't  exist.  So  I  say,  "Oh,  that's  an exception.  What  am  I  going  to  do  with the  exception?  I'm  going  to  throw  the exception."  Right?  So  someone  gets  the exception.  You  got  the  exception.  You don't  just  leave  it  there.  You  got  the exception,  man.  All right.  What  are  you  going  to  do  with  the exception? I  caught  it.  You  caught  it.  That's important.  Hold  on  to  it  for  the  time being.  Okay,  because  it's  important, right?  That  that's  a  a  valuable commodity.  So,  just  hold  that  exception. Hold  that  thought.  Okay.  So,  when  an exception  gets  thrown,  there  has  to  be some  notion  of  catching  the  exception hopefully.  And  if  no  one  catches  the exception,  your  program  is  going  to  stop executing.  Cuz  if  there's  no  one  there to  catch  the  exception,  that  exception is  just  going  to  sort  of  go  up  all possible  functions  in  your  program  and say,  "Hey,  is  there  anyone  here  to  catch me?  There's  no  one  here  to  catch  me. Okay,  your  program's  done  because  no  one caught  me.  And  I'm  a  pretty  important thing  to  catch."  Okay,  that's  why  I needed  you  to  catch  it.  I'll  set  you  up for  catching  it  because  I  know  it  took  a little  effort,  but  it's  important  to catch  it.  Just  hold  on  to  it  for  the time  being.  Okay.  So,  how  do  you actually  catch  an  exception  or  how  do you  tell  the  computer,  I'm  going  to  do something  that  may  involve  an  exception? So,  you  actually  need  to  set  it  up  and let  the  computer  know,  hey,  I'm  going  to do  something  that  may  involve  an exception.  The  way  you  say  that  is  you say  try.  I  want  you  to  try  something. This  thing  may  throw  an  exception,  so  be prepared,  but  I  want  you  to  try  it. Inside  here,  you  have  your  code  for  file access.  And  that's  whatever  you're  doing with  the  file,  trying  to  create  a  new buffered  reader  with  the  file,  reading in  lines  one  by  one,  or  closing  a  file. Anytime  you're  trying  to  do  something that  involves  a  file  access,  you  need  to put  it  inside  this  thing  called  a  try that  says,  "Hey,  I'm  going  to  try  this out."  It  may  throw  an  exception.  Now, what  happens  if  it  does  throw  an exception?  You  have  something  over  here where  you  write catch.  And  what  you're  going  to  catch  in this  case  is  something  called  an  IO exception  because  it's  an  exception  that happens  when  you're  trying  to  do  IO  or input  output.  And  there's  this  ex  thing which  is  actually  the  exception.  It's that  little  envelope  that  you  actually catch  in  your  hands.  And  then  you  have some  code  here  which  is  how  to  deal  with the  exception.  Okay.  So  if  you  are  doing something  inside  here  and  some  place  as soon  as  you  get  to  it  says  whoa something  bad  happened  exception.  It does  not  execute  any  more  of  the remaining  statements  inside  this  block for  try.  As  soon  as  it  gets  an  exception inside  here,  it  says,  "Whoa,  here's  an exception."  It  throws  it.  Where  are  you going  to  catch  it?  You're  going to  catch it  here.  Which  means  as  soon  as  an exception  gets  thrown,  even  in  the middle  somewhere  here,  the  rest  of  this does  not  get  executed  and  it  comes  over here  to  this  code  to  deal  with  catching the  exception.  If  it  gets  through  all  of the  code  where  you  say,  "Hey,  I'm  going to  try  something  dangerous."  It  gets through  all  of  it  and  it  doesn't  throw an  exception.  This  code  down  here  is  not executed.  So  this  code  down  here  is  only executed  if  an  exception  was  thrown. Okay,  so  what  does  that  actually  look like?  Okay,  let's  write  some  code  that deals  with  trying  to  catch  an exception.  Just  just  keep  holding  it. It's  a  good  time.  We're  kind  of,  you know,  running  our  program  in  slow motion.  It's  kind  of  like,  oh,  you've got  the  exception.  And  normally  you'd  be like,  oh,  catch  here.  I'm  going  to  do something  with  it.  Here  we're  kind  of like,  we're  taking  our  time.  It's mellow.  It's  good.  Here,  I'll  give  you  a little  more  candy  just  to  keep  you  awake with  the exception.  All right.  You  never  thought just  by  like  sitting  there  you  could just  accumulate  food.  All right.  So,  we have  private.  We're  going  to  return  a buffered reader.  So,  this  is  a  function  or  a method  we're  going to  write  that's  a private  method  inside  some  class.  It's going  to  return  a  buffered  reader.  And what  we'll  call  this  is  we'll  call  this open  file.  So,  the  name  of  the  method, let  me  make  this  all  a  little  bit smaller  so  I  can  fit  it  on  one  line. private buffered  reader  and  what  it's  going  to get  passed  is  basically  some  string which  is  a  prompt  to  ask  the  user  for the  name  of  the  file  to  open.  So  that's a  common  thing  you  want  to  do.  You  ask the  user,  hey,  what  file  do  you  actually want  to  open  for  reading?  So  how  might  I do  that?  I'm  going  to  start  off.  I  want to  return  one  of  these  buffered  readers, which  means  I'm  going to  need  to  have  a buffered  reader  object  in  here  at  some point.  So  I'm  going  to  declare  a buffered  reader  as  a  local  variable  RD and  I'm  going  to  set  it  initially  to  be null  which  means  I  created  the  buffered reader  at  least  I  created  a  pointer  for it  a  reference  for  it  I  have  not actually  created  the  object  yet  so  I can't  actually  pass  make  any  method calls  on  RD  yet  right  I've  just  sort  of created  the  local  variable  I'm  going  to actually  create  the  object  in  just  a second  I'm  going  to  have  a  while  loop here  and  say  while  RD  is  equal  equal  to null  so  I  know  that  that's  going  to execute  the  first  time  through  cuz  I  set it  equal  to  null  to  begin  with.  And  then what  I'm  going  to  do  inside  here,  so  I have  a  brace  there  is  I'm  going to  say, hey,  I'm  going  to  try  something  that  may be  dangerous.  So  what  I  want  to  try doing  is  I'm  going  to  ask  the  user  to give  me  the  name  of  the  file.  So  I'm going  to  have  string  name  equals  read line  and  I'll  pass  it  whatever  prompt was  given  to  me  as  a  parameter.  Right? So  I'm  just  asking  all  I'm  doing  here  is asking  the  user  to  enter  the  name  of  the file.  Right?  And  whatever  prompt  I  write on  the  screen  is  excuse  me  just  whatever was  passed  in  here.  So  it  might  have been  something  like  please  enter  file was  the  string.  So  I'll  write  out  please enter  file  and  ask  the  user  for  the  file name.  Now  here  comes  the  dangerous  part. I  want  to  create  the  buffered  reader.  So I  say  RD  equals new buffered  reader.  And  the  parameter  I'm going  to  pass  to  a  buffered  reader  is new  file  reader.  And  the  parameter  I'm going to  give  to  the  file  reader  is whatever  file  name  the  user  gave  me.  So this  is  just name.  So  what  this  is  going  to  try  to  do is  whatever  the  user  gave  me,  it's  going to  try  to  create  one  of  these  new buffered  reader  objects  that  corresponds to  the  file  with  that  name  that's actually  on  disk.  If  that  file  exists and  it  creates  the  correspondence,  life is  good.  RD  actually  is  now  pointing  to some  valid  object  which  is  a  buffered reader.  If  that  file  does  not  exist, I've  thrown  an  exception.  and  I  say, "Bad  times.  The  user  mistyped  something or  they  gave  you  the  name  of  a  file  that doesn't  exist.  Here's  an  exception, buddy.  It's  not  there.  I  can't  create the  correspondence."  If  that  exception's thrown,  right?  I  never  created  a  new object,  which  means  I  never  returned  a value  to  assign  to  RD,  which  means  RD still  has  the  value  null.  That's  an important  thing  because  if  I  do  this  try and  the  file's  not  there,  I'm  going  to catch  this  IO exception. Exception  ex.  And  what  I'm  going  to  do when  I  catch  that  exception,  I'm  not actually  going  to  do  anything  with  the exception.  The  parameter  ex  that's passed  in.  All  I'm  going  to  do  is  just write  a  print  lin  to  the  person  saying like  bad file  and  then  I'm  going  to  have  a  closed PN and  close  PN  here  another  or  close  brace for  the  while  loop.  So  this  brace corresponds  to  the  while  loop.  And  if all  of  this  works  out,  I'll  just  I'll write  it  right  over  here  on  the  side.  I will return  RD.  That  line  would  go  right  down here.  Okay.  So,  what  does  this  code  do? It  says  create  the  space  for  an  object or  create  one  of  these,  you  know,  the pointers  to  an  object,  but  set  it  to  be null.  It's  not  a  point.  It's  not pointing  to  a  real  object  yet.  And  while it  remains  null,  ask  the  user  for  a line.  Try  to  open  up  a  buffered  reader to  that  file.  If  this  works,  life  is good.  I  don't  execute  the  catch  portion. And  RD  now  has  a  nonnull  value  because it's  actually  a  valid  buffered  reader object.  And  so  when  I  try  to  do  this while  loop  again,  RD  is  no  longer  equal to  null,  which  means  I'm  done  with  the loop  and  I  will  return  this  object  that I  just  created,  which  is  actually  this object  that  is  a  valid  correspondence  to a  file.  So  that's  a  very  convenient  way in  one  method  to  encapsulate  all  the work  of  opening  up  a  file  and  getting  a valid  reference  to  a  buffered  reader that  refers  to  that  file.  If  I  tried  to create  this  file  reader  and  this  file for  whatever  reason  did  not  exist,  an exception  gets  thrown.  If  an  exception gets  thrown,  execution  doesn't  complete at  this  line.  So  RD  never  gets  assigned a  new  value  and  it  immediately  goes  to the  catch  and  says,  "Hey,  here's  the exception.  I  couldn't  find  the  file." What  does  the  exception  catcher  do?  It says,  "Hey,  bad  file,  buddy. And  then  it's  done,  right?  It  just reaches  the  end  of  the  catch  part  and execution  continues.  So  it  comes  to  the end  of  the  while  loop,  comes  back  up here  and  RD  still  has  the  value  null.  So it  asks  the  user,  hey,  enter  a  file again  and  tries  to  do  this  whole  process again.  And  you'll  get  out  of  this  loop when  buffered  reader  actually  gets  a valid  object.  Uhhuh.  Is  it  better practice  to  keep  the  try  block  as  small as  possible? Yeah,  that's  a  good  point.  What  you  want to  do  is  when  you're  trying  something dangerous,  you  don't  want  to  just  tell your  whole  program.  You  don't  want  to say,  "Hey,  program,  let  me  put everything  inside  a  try  because  I'm going  to  be  doing  all  this  dangerous stuff  and  I  don't  know  when  I'm  going  to do  it.  I  might  do  a  little  here  and  a little  over  there."  So,  put  it  all inside  this  huge  try  block.  That's really  bad  style.  What  you  really  want to  do  is  only  do  as  little  as  possible in  the  try  and  say,  "Hey,  I'm  about  to do  something  dangerous.  Let  me encapsulate  that  in  one  of  these things."  That's  a  try  c.  We  refer  to  it as  a  try  catch  block  because  we  have  a try  and  a  catch.  And  as  soon  as  I'm  done with  the  dangerous  part,  then  let  me  get out  of  that  try  block  because  I  need  to know  that.  Okay,  now  I'm  not  doing dangerous  stuff  anymore.  And  the programmer  needs  to  know  that  when  they see  the  files,  they  need  to  understand when  you're  doing  dangerous  stuff  versus not.  Okay,  so  any  questions  about  that? This  notion  of  throwing  an  exception. All  right,  so  now  here's  the  interesting thing  that  happens.  Okay,  sometimes  when an  exception  gets  thrown,  you  know  what you  want  to  do.  Like  you  want  to  say, hey,  that  file  didn't  exist.  I  write  out bad  file  and  I  keep  executing. Sometimes  you  get  an  exception  and  you have  no  idea  what  to  do.  You  try  to,  you know,  you  created  this  correspondence  to students.  That  worked  just  fine.  And  you start  reading  lines  from  the  file  and it's  just  fine.  But  before  you  get  to the  end  of  the  file,  what  happens?  Your roommate  comes  along  and  deletes  the file  or  like  beats  your  computer  on  the head  and  your  disc  crashes  or  whatever and  your  program's  still  executing,  but your  disc  is  no  longer  working.  This  has actually  happened  before.  You  try  to say,  "Hey,  buffered  reader,  get  me  a line."  and  it  says  there's  no  more  line. Like  I  thought  I  had  the  file  and everything  but  there's  no  more  line.  I don't  know  what  to  do.  What  does  it  do? It  throws  an  exception.  Sometimes  when it  throws  an  exception.  What  are  you going  to  do  here?  Right?  You  just  try  to read  a  line.  You're  like,  "What?  The line  doesn't  exist,  but  but  the  file existed.  Now  you're  telling  me  the  line doesn't  exist.  What  am  I  going  to  do?" Sometimes  you  don't  know  what  you're going  to  do.  And  when  you  don't  know what  you're  going  to  do,  what  you  do  is you  say,  "Hey,  you  know  that  exception that  got  thrown  to  me?  I'm  just  going  to keep  throwing  it.  So  throw  the  exception back  to  me. And  somewhere  now  I  don't  feel  so  bad about  missing  you  the  first  time. Someone  gets  the  exception  right  and  if I  didn't  get  it  like  you  throw  it  to  me and  I'm  just  like  what  exception  right and  I'm  your  program  the  program  just dies.  Someone  comes  along  beats  me  on the  head  and  says  hey  you  didn't  catch the  exception  you  stop  executing.  But sometimes  like  someone  gets  it  and they're  like  hey  I  know  what  to  do  with the  exception.  It's  all  good  right?  They get  something  out  and  they're  like  yeah really  all  the  exception  was  was  some clothing  I  needed  you  to  wear.  You didn't  know  how  to  wear  it.  I'm  sorry, you're  not  quite  as  stylish  as  I am.  So,  I  know  how  to  deal  with  the exception.  Once  I  know  how  to  deal  with the  exception,  I'm  done  with  the exception.  I  kind  of  keep  executing  from where  I'm  at,  but  I  appreciate  you catching  the  exception  to  begin  with. And  if  you  didn't  know  what  to  do  with it,  you  just  keep  throwing  it  along  its way.  Okay.  So,  one  more  time  just  for just  for  throwing  it.  And  to  the  people around  you  for  for  getting  pelted  with candy.  All right.  So,  what  does  this actually  look  like  in  code?  Okay.  So, let's  look  at  a  little  code.  Come  on, little  guy.  Wake  up. Oh,  sleepy  Mac.  Sleepy  Mac.  All right. So,  what  does  this  actually  look  like  in code?  What's  going  to  happen  is  here's our  little  function  that  we  just  wrote over  there,  our  method  that  returned  a buffered  reader.  So,  this  is  all  the same  code.  It  creates  a  buffered  reader that's  null.  While  it's  null,  it  asks the  user  for  a  file  name.  It  tries  to create  a  new  buffered  reader  with  that file  name.  If  it  doesn't  exist,  it  says, "Nice  try,  punk.  That  file  doesn't exist."  And  it  asks  again.  Right? So  this  is  just  fine.  This  is  what  we wrote.  This  is  an  exception  that  we  know how  to  deal  with.  We  don't  actually  use this  ex  portion.  You  don't  need  to  care about  that  or  whatever.  You  just  say, "Yeah,  I  know  the  file  didn't  exist.  So I'll  write  out  a  message  to  the  user  and keep  executing."  Now  down  here,  don't worry  about  the  set  font.  That's  just making  the  font  bigger.  I'm  going  to say,  "Hey,  I'm  going  to  call  my  open file."  This  basically  a  passive aggressive  program.  It  asks  you  real nicely,  please  enter  the  file  name.  And if  you  get  it  wrong,  it's  nice  try, punk.  That  file  doesn't  exist.  And  then it  says,  please  enter  a  file  name. Right.  Um just  we'll  make  no  more  comments  about passive  aggressive  behavior.  Um,  but  it calls  open  file.  It  passes  in  this prompt  and  what  it's  guaranteed  to  get back  is  an  RD  object  that  is  a  valid file.  Right?  Because  if  it  didn't  get  a valid  file,  it  just  keeps  looping  here until  it  got  a  valid  object  that  it could  actually  correspond  has  a correspondence  to  the  file.  And  you're like,  "Oh,  that's  great.  Now  I  need  to read  the  file."  reading  the  file  is  a dangerous  thing  to  do  because  I'm referring  to  this  file  and  I  don't  know if  something  bad  will  suddenly  happen and  the  file  will  go  away.  So  I  put  this inside  another  one  of  these  try  catch blocks.  So  not  only  do  I  have  a  try catch  block  for  making  the  for  opening the  file  every  time  I  try  to  read  the file  or  potentially  close  the  file  I need  to  have  one  of these  two.  So  this guy  comes  along  and  says  okay  I'm  going to  have  a  while  true  loop  and  read  all the  lines  of  the  file  kind  of  like  Maron showed  me  before.  So  I'll  have  this variable  line  that  I  just  read  a  line from  the  file.  If  that  line  is  null, then  I  know  I've  reached  the  end  of  the file.  So,  I'm  done.  I  break  out  of  the while  loop  and  I  will  come  here  and close  the  file.  Always  remember  to  close your  file.  It's  just  good  practice.  If the  line  is  not  null,  I'm  just  going  to write  it  out  to  the  screen.  I'll  say read  line  and  I'll  write  out  inside little  brackets  just  so  it's  clear  what the  beginning  and  ending  of  the  line were,  the  line  that  I  read  in.  Okay?  And I'll  just  keep  doing  this.  And  when  I'm done  and  I  don't  get  an  exception,  I close  the  file  and  I  will  skip  over  this catch  portion  and  just  keep  executing, which  means  my  program  is  done. If  however  while  I'm  reading  the  file one  of  my  I  say  read  line  and  it  just doesn't  exist.  I  come  over  here  to  the exception  and  I  say  hey  I  got  this  IO exception.  I  don't  know  how  to  deal  with that  right  I  don't  know  how  to  deal  with the  fact  that  I  just  read  a  line  it doesn't  exist.  So  I'm  just  going  to throw  an  exception  to  someone  else.  So what  I  do  inside  here  is  I  will  throw  a new  exception.  And  the  exception  you will  always  throw  if  you  don't  know which  exception  to  throw  which  is  most of  the  time  you  won't  know  which exception  to  throw  is  something  that  we call  the  error  exception.  So  you  say, "Hey,  I  got  an  exception.  I  don't  know how  to  deal  with  it.  Maybe  someone  else who  was  trying  to  access  me  put  me inside  a  try  catch  block.  So  I'm  going to  throw  an  exception  up  to  them  and  see if  they  can  catch  the  exception.  And  the exception  I'm  going  to  throw  is  an  error exception.  And  error.  And  when  you  throw an  exception,  it  has  a  parameter.  And that's  just  the  exception  object  that you're  throwing  along.  You  actually  got some  exception  object  passed  to  you  when the  exception  was  thrown.  You  didn't want  to  look  inside.  You  didn't  want  to deal  with  it.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  you don't  need  to  look  inside  or  deal  with it.  All  you're  going  to  do  is  just continue  to  pass  that  exception  object up  to  the  person  who  may  have  called you.  Okay?  So  when  you  throw  an exception,  execution  would  stop  in  the method  that  you're  at.  At  that  point where  you  throw  the  exception,  the method  will  end  and  it  will  throw  an exception  up  to  whoever  called  this method.  Okay?  Unless  this  happens  to  all be  inside  some  other  catch  block  inside here,  in  which  case  you'll  catch  the exception  yourself.  But  if  you're  not trying  to  catch  the  exception  yourself, it'll  just  get  passed  up  and  someone else  will  catch  it.  Okay?  So,  any questions  about  this?  Here  we  know  how to  deal  with  the  exception.  Here  we don't  know  how  to  deal  with  the exception.  And  if  you  want  to  actually be  able  to  pass  an  error  exception, that's  something  that's  defined  in  this thing  called  ACM  util.  So,  it's  an exception  that's  defined  in  the  ACM libraries.  You  should  import ACM.util.star  to  be  able  to  throw  one  of these  error  exceptions.  Okay,  so  this  is let  me  just  run  this  program  just  so  you can  actually  see  that  it  works.  This  is another  file  example.  And  then  I  will show  you  something  that's  extremely cool,  which  is  basically  in  10  lines  of code,  you  can  copy  files,  doing  it  all in  Java.  And  you're  like,  "Yeah,  Maron, but  I  can  copy  files  in  like  four  clicks of  my  mouse."  Yeah,  what  if  I  just  took your  mouse  and  just  busted  it,  right? Then  what  would  you  do?  You're  like, "Yeah,  then  I  then  I'd  write  a  Java program  to  copy  a  file." Um,  don't  force  me  to  bust  your  mouse. My  one  of  my  other  mice  busted  last night.  It  was  just  a  harrowing experience.  So,  I  want  to  enter  the  file name  and  I  say,  "Oh,  the  file  name  is what  what  was  that  called?  called  Was  it called  Stanford? Stanford.txt.  No.  Oh,  it  was  called students.  I  keep  pressing  the  A.  Stu. Yeah,  I  can't  even  type  anymore.  Wasn't it  called  students?  No,  it  was  called students.txt.  Oh,  I  forgot  the  S. Students.txt.  And  then  when  it  finally gets  a  valid  file  and  creates  the correspondence,  notice  it's  reading  the lines  from  the  file  one  by  one,  and  it just  got  them  as  strings  and  it's printing  them  out.  Okay,  any  questions about  that? So  besides  reading  files,  sometimes  in life  we  also  want  to  be  able  to  write files.  So  here's  the  quicky  way  to  be able  to  write  a  file. Okay,  it's  sim  very  similar.  It's actually  writing  a  file  is  even  re easier  than  reading  one  if  you  can believe  that.  And  you're  like,  but Maron,  reading  one  is  pretty  easy.  Yeah, it  is.  And  writing  one's  even  easier.  So it's  just  that  much  cooler.  If  I  can find  my  chalk,  it'll  be  even  that  much cooler.  Here  it  is.  What  you're  going  to do  is  guess  what  you're  going  to  open  a file  to  write.  This  is  something  rather than  using  a  buffered  reader,  we  call  it a  print  writer.  You  will  create  a  print writer  object.  Two,  you  will  write  to the  file.  Unlike  reading  from  the  file where  you  use  readlin,  it's  very  easy  to write  to  a  file.  You  just  do  print lens  to  the  file.  You  use  print  lin,  but you're  actually  going  to  be  passing print  to  some  object  here.  What  object? Your  print  writer  object.  Okay?  And  the same  ways  you've  used  print  lint  to write  on  the  screen,  you  can  use  it exactly  the  same  way  to  write  to  a  file. And  when  you  are  done,  you  will  close the  file.  Gee,  that  looks  real  familiar, right?  So  let's  actually  see  what  that looks  like  in  code.  So  what  I'm  going  to show  you  is  a  little  program  that  copies a  file  line  by  line.  So  once  again, here's  the  exact  same  function  we  wrote before  to  open  a  file  for  reading.  So this  has  our  buffered  reader  stuff  and our  little  while  loop  and  keeps  asking for  file  names  until  we  read  the  file. So  it's  exactly  the  same  code.  We're just  reusing  the  code.  That's  part  of the  beauty  of  code  reuse,  right?  What we're  going  to  do  here  is  we're  going  to open  a  file  by  asking  the  user  to  enter a  file  name.  And  this  is  the  file  that's going  to  be  our  reader.  So  our  object  is RD.  Now  we're  going  to  create  a  file that  is  a  or  a  object  which  is  a  writer. So  we're  going  to  try  because  we're going  to  do  something  dangerous. Creating  a  file  is  just  as  dangerous  or writing  a  file  is  just  as  dangerous  as reading  one.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  in some  sense,  in  a  more  esoteric  way,  it is  more  dangerous.  Why  is  it  more dangerous?  Because  if  you  try  to  tell the  computer  write  to  a  file  which already  exists,  what's  it  going  to  do? You  might  say,  will  it  tell  you  that  it already  exists?  Will  it  try  to  give  you a  different  file  name?  No.  It'll  go smash  the  file  that  exists  there  to  bits and  write  a  brand  new  file.  Which  means, yeah,  if  you're  overwriting students.ext,  not  a  big  deal.  If  you're overwriting  your  word  processor,  big deal.  Be  careful  what  file  names  you give  when  you  are  writing  because  if that  file  name  already  exists  it  will get  rid  of  the  one  that's  already  there and  overwrite  it  with  a  new  one  which  is whatever  you  happen  to  write  into  it. Okay.  So  print  writer  we're  going to create  a  new  writer  and  we  want  to inside  a  print  writer  just  like  we  had this  little  thingy  up  here  where  we  had a  buffered  reader  and  a  buffered  reader used  a  file  reader  over  here  when  we create  a  print  writer  and  this  is  all  in chapter  12  of  the  book  so  you  don't  need to  worry  about  scribbling  this  down quickly.  a  print  writer.  You  say  new file  writer  is  the  object  you  create  and pass  to  a  print  writer  and  you  give  it  a file  name.  Here  I've  you  could  have given  it,  you  know,  like  a  string variable  or  whatever.  Here  I've  just  put in  directly  copy.ext.  So  the  thing  I'm going  to  create  is  a  file  called copy.ext.  All  your  files  need  to  be  in the  same  project  as  your  code.  So  that's where  new  files  will  get  created.  That's where  when  it  looks  to  read  a  file, that's  where  it's  going  to  look  as  that same  file  that  has  your  project.  So  I have  a  while  true  loop.  What  am  I  going to  do  in  my  while  true  loop?  I'm  gonna read  one  line  at  a  time  from  my  input file,  from  my  reader.  If  my  reader  has no  more  lines,  I  get  a  null  and  I  say, "Hey,  I'm  done  reading."  I'm  gonna  break out  of  the  loop.  If  I'm  not  done reading,  I've  just  gotten  a  line.  I'm going  to  write  that  line  to  the  screen using  print  lin.  So,  print  lin  without any  object  over  here  writes  to  the console  because  this  is  a  print  lin  that is  being  called  on  the  uh  console program  and  it  writes  to  the  console. When  I  do  w.printlin,  print  lin  that's sending  printlin  to  the  write  write  the print  writer  object  and  it's  writing  out the  line.  So  it's  saying  here's  this line.  Hey  print  writer  write  this  out  to the  file  that  you  correspond  to.  It  says oh  okay  I'll  go  write  it  in  copy.ext  and I  keep  looping  like  this.  I  get  a  new line  if  it's  not  the  end  of  the  file. Then  I  write  it  to  the  screen  and  I write  it  to  the  file.  If  I  go  through this  whole  while  loop  and  finish  off everything.  So  I  finish  the  whole  file. I  get  to  where  line  equals  null.  I  say hey  I'm  done  reading  the  file.  also close  the  file  to  read.  I'm  also  done writing  the  file.  So  I  tell  the  writing file,  the  print  writer  to  close  itself. And  this  whole  time  if  something  bad happens  and  I  get  an  exception,  I  catch the  exception  and  say,  I  don't  know  what to  do  with  it.  I'm  just  going  to  throw it  to  someone  else.  Okay?  And  that's  the whole  program.  That's  all  the  code  you need  to  copy  a  file.  So  let's  run  this and  just  make  sure  it  actually works.  Operation  in  progress.  And  just to  show  you  that  I'm  not  lying,  let  me cancel  this  for  a  second. We'll  open  up  some folders.  Notice  no  copy.ext  in  here. Here's  the  little  project  file  that  I have.  Okay,  there's  my  copy  file  class. My  copy  file  Java  file.  Here's  my students.ext  file.  No  copy.ext  file. Now,  magic.  All right,  we  run.  See,  I had  to  tell  you  that  because  I  could have  just  cheated.  I  could  have  been like,  yeah,  I  just  typed  up  the  copy.ext file.  Running.  Running.  running  in.  Oh, come  on.  You  can  do  it.  And  And  your glowing  blue.  I  love  the  glowing  blue. It's  fun.  Copy file.  Please  enter  file  name. Students.ext.  I'll  spare  you  the  uh  the incorrect  file  names.  So,  it's  copy.  It says  copying  line.  It  writes  out  all these  lines  to  the  screen.  Let's  see  if it  actually  exists. Oh,  copy.ext.  It's  warm.  It's  fuzzy. It's  fun.  Now,  if  you  look  over  here, just  wondering,  you  might  look  in  your project  and  say,  "Hey,  I  don't  see  I thought  this,  you  know,  shows  me everything  in  my  folder.  I  don't  see copy.ext  show  up  here."  Yeah,  you  go  up here,  you  rightclick,  you  pick refresh.  Ah,  copy.ext.  And  there  it  is. Looks  identical  to students.ext.  There  you  go.  All  righty. Any  questions?  Then  I  will  see  you  on Monday.