Omnia in numeris sita sunt. (Everything   lies veiled in numbers.) 
FOREWORD by FAITH JAVANE
  MANY OF MY STUDENTS and a 
number of people who have
  heard my lectures have expressed 
a desire for a complete textbook
  on numerology so that they could study 
their own life patterns in depth.
  Until now, I have neglected this 
responsibility, hoping that my classes
  would be sufficient. Also, I felt such 
a project to be beyond possibility.
  However, pressures have convinced me 
that a full-length text would be both
  acceptable and fulfilling.
My study of numerology began in   the spring of 1938. I found a teacher of
astrology who insisted that before she   would accept me as a student, I must
study numerology. Since I very much wanted   to study with her, I agreed to
start with the numbers.
  Her approach to numerology, however, 
was like none other. She had
  received it in a unique way, from what 
she called the inner planes, which
  meant that she went outside her 
body to a mystical school for her
  instruction. She called this work 
Kabbalah because it had come to her
  through the mind and soul rather than 
from a flesh-and-blood teacher, or
  from a book. Kabbalah refers to 
secret information in symbolic form,
  whether in a numerical, verbal 
or hieroglyphic pattern.
  The biblical books of Ezekiel, 
Enoch and Ezra contain mystical
  revelations of hidden knowledge, 
including speculation about the mystical
  import of numbers and letters. The 
Kabbalist knew how to decode the
  esoteric messages in the Scriptures.
I admit to some skepticism about my   teacher’s beliefs, but I went along
with her teaching. What she revealed   we now call the Divine Triangle. It
was known in the Pythagorean school   (about 6th century BC) as the Life
Theorem, and it is now commonly accepted   as the proposition that: The
square of the hypotenuse of a   right triangle is equal to the sum of the
squares of the other 2 sides. Pythagoras   used the right triangle as a
representation of the universe.   It was his Eureka.
According to my teacher,   the master KH, whom she believed to be
Pythagoras reincarnated, taught her that   the right triangle could also be
made to symbolize the world of an   individual. This startling revelation is
the original basis for the method of   numerological delineation of the life
pattern of an individual described in this book.
  In answer to many requests, I now 
present to you the secret of the Divine
  Triangle.
FOREWORD by DUSTY BUNKER
  IN ANY PROFESSION one is invariably 
asked the question, “When did
  you become interested in...?” I have 
pondered that question long and
  deeply and now realize that it cannot 
be answered simply. There is no given
  moment when one thing ends and another 
begins. A great thunderbolt from
  heaven did not strike the ground before 
my feet, etching words in flame,
  pronouncing my destiny. Nor did I 
proclaim at noon on a Sunday, “I am
  going to begin now.” It just happened, 
naturally and with little fanfare.
  Metaphysics is as much a part of me as 
breath itself. As I studied over the
  years in one discipline or another, 
information began to fall into place more
  and more easily. Just as a child struggles 
to achieve balance upon those tiny
  feet, I struggled with many concepts 
and experiences until I found the
  proper balance. As the work progressed, 
the steps became easier and more
  natural. Now this philosophy I 
embrace so respectfully has become my
  love, my life and my devotion.
I could speculate that it began   eons ago in Lemuria or Mu or Atlantis or
in the ancient initiation chambers of the   Great Pyramid, or even in the
sacred halls of the Lyceum with   my beloved Pythagoras. Perhaps we do
carry deep within our souls memories   of past existences that eventually
surge into our present incarnations,   demanding fulfillment. Certainly, child
prodigies are living proof of this   possibility. Whatever the impetus driving
us into certain professions, we seem to be   inextricably bound to continue an
evolution that some primal   recollection tells us we have begun.
I have been most fortunate along that path,   for I was given the greatest of
all privileges: a true teacher;   that rare and much sought-after creature. In
a pupil-teacher relationship, I met Faith,   co-author of this book, in
1975. The relationship grew   into a bond of respect, admiration and love. We
presented our first book on May 1, 1976, and have
  now completed this, our 2nd book, 
inspired by the knowledge that there
  is a great searching in people’s hearts 
today, a need to comprehend the vast
  inner spaces as well as the outer 
spaces. Through this book we believe we
  can help fill that void with logic, 
reason, understanding and love. Through
  the sacred science of numerology, truths 
can be gleaned and souls can be set
  at rest. Go with us then, and discover 
your inner self, your reasons for being
  and the eternal splendor of the Spirit.
INTRODUCTION
  THERE IS AN ORDER in the universe, 
from the atom to the solar
  system. Awakening interest in the 
rhythm of this order has called
  forth new efforts to synthesize the 
different methods used throughout the
  ages to understand it. Somewhere 
between the microcosmic and the
  macrocosmic, we look for the key 
that can put our world into logical
  perspective. We believe that the 
science of numbers can provide formulae
  which help clarify the evolving 
pattern of existence on earth.
  Enough ancient wisdom has survived 
the vicissitudes of time to suggest
  some basis on which to build new 
methods of analyzing personality, or at
  least to cast new light on 
the systems used in the past.
  Our methods, while containing the 
element of mystery, yet proceed in an
  orderly and practical way, using 
the numbers involved in names and
  birthdates to solve the enigmas of 
individuality, personality, and the patterns
  of function and fate carried through 
life by every human being. We invite
  you to experiment with this combination 
of ancient formulae and modern
  application. While it has not been 
presented, to our knowledge, in any book,
  it has been verified by thirty years 
of actual application and successful
  experience.
The Divine Triangle, used as   a blueprint of one’s life, reveals, step by
step, from birth to death, what that life   should express, indicating the
potentials and pitfalls by a   series of numbers from 1 to 78.
We are all born at a certain date,   hour and minute into the earth’s field of
energy. The conditions and vibrations   of that energy field determine to a
great extent the particular actions and   reactions that will characterize our
entire lives. We are conditioned by   the basic set of vibrations that were
active when we took our first breath.
  The birthdate provides the pattern 
which we call the Life Lesson. The
  name given at birth, transcribed into 
numbers by use of the number-letter
  code used since ancient times and 
described in this book, provides the 3
  vibrations we call the Soul Number, 
the Outer Personality Number and the
  Path of Destiny Number of a given 
individual. And by placing the name and
  birthdate formula on the blueprint of 
the Divine Triangle, we are provided
  with the key to the incarnation a 
soul has chosen for the attainment of
  certain goals. Your numbers tell the 
state of consciousness which you have
  reached and record the 
growth of your soul as well.
  One’s personal numbers are not isolated 
clues, but, like all phenomena,
  are interlocking pieces in the vast 
puzzle of existence. Therefore, for the
  benefit of those who wish to broaden 
their understanding of numerology,
  this book seeks to synthesize it with 
the sciences of astrology and the Tarot.
  To go into the vast and deep 
correspondences among the three sciences
  would require volumes; we are simply 
pointing out certain relationships
  that we have verified over many years.
This book is divided into 2 parts. Part   1 presents the origins and
philosophy of numerology. It   explains how to determine the numbers that
govern your existence and how to make a   blueprint of your life by placing
these numbers on the form called   the Divine Triangle. There is also a
chapter entitled More with Numbers,   which shows you how to find the right
career or determine your compatibility   with someone else. A case study of
Edgar Cayce, the beloved and well-known   psychic who has been called the
Sleeping Prophet, follows to illustrate   the use of the Divine Triangle. Lastly,
Part 1 presents a look at number symbology   in the Bible, both in the Old
and the New Testament.
  Part 2 of the book presents delineations 
of the numbers 1 through 78.
  Until now, numerology has been limited 
to the use of the digits 1 through 9
  and a few double numbers ranging 
into the 20’s. The number 78 was not
  chosen at random; rather, it represents 
a total experience. The number 12
  incorporates the basic 1 through 9 
cycle, with an additional three steps in
  which to use the learned experience of 
the 1 through 9 cycle and bring it out
  to be shared with others for their 
benefit. It represents the 12 months of
  the year and indicates a complete 
cycle, a whole, a circle, as also
  exemplified in the 12 signs of the 
zodiac and the 12 disciples. The
  next step, 13, takes us into a new level 
of consciousness. Therefore 78, as
  an extension of 12 (1 + 2 + 3 + 4 + 5 
+ 6 + 7 + 8 + 9 + 10 + 11 + 12 = 78),
  symbolizes a complete round of experience.
In the delineations in Part 2,   the 78 numbers are fully
described as numerical vibrations.   They are also synthesized with the
78 Tarot keys and the planets, signs,   and decans of the zodiac. As
this amazing synthesis unfolds,   one can only stand in awe before God’s
work. Only a cosmic mind could have planned   such an intricate pattern in
which each science dovetails   so exquisitely with the other.
We repeat that to our knowledge   this synthesis has never been attempted.
The correspondences among numerology,   astrology and the Tarot were not
chosen at random; they have been   tested through years of research and
application. We believe they are   accurate. We suggest that you try them for
yourself, for it is only through personal   verification that any belief or
process is truly accepted.
  ONE. ESOTERIC NUMEROLOGY.
NUMEROLOGY BEGAN when life began, because “in the
  beginning there was 1.” The 
vibrations then began and the 2
  appeared, the first pair, and ushered 
in the real beginning of universal
  geometry.
Numbers, by themselves,   represent universal principles through which all
things evolve and continue to grow in   cyclic fashion. The digits 1 through 9
symbolize the stages through which an idea must   pass before it becomes a
reality. All manifestation   is the result of these nine stages.
Esoteric numerology is the art and   science of understanding the spiritual
significance and orderly progression of   all manifestation. Every word or
name vibrates to a number and every   number has its inner meaning. The
letter and number code, when rightly   understood and applied, brings us into
a direct and close relationship with the   underlying intelligence of the
universe.
  We owe much of our spiritual and 
scientific understanding of numbers to
  Pythagoras, the father of mathematics. 
Pythagoras is most commonly
  remembered for the Pythagorean theorem, 
which states that The square of
  the hypotenuse of a right triangle is 
equal to the sum of the squares of the
  other two sides. However, Pythagoras 
was primarily a mystic and a
  philosopher. He believed that “all 
things are numbers” and that numbers
  represent spiritual entities whose 
presence is felt in all existence.
  He discovered the mystical significance 
of numbers, noting that the
  numbers 1 through 9 stand, macrocosmically, 
for universal principles. On
  the personal level, microcosmically, they 
stand for characteristics, abilities
  and events. He saw in number 
patterns and geometrical ratios the
  explanations of all natural phenomena, 
musical harmony and tonal qualities.
  He knew that the stars and planets 
as vibrating bodies produced sound
  which became known as the “music of the spheres.”
Pythagoras was born around 582 B.C. on   the Greek island of Samos, in
the Aegean Sea. As a young man   he left home and travelled to Egypt, where
he was initiated into certain mathematical   doctrines. He is also reported to
have studied with Zoroaster,   the Persian sage, and to have learned the
Kabbalah in Judea. The science of numbers he   eventually taught was based
on Kabbalistic principles.
  Pythagoras finally settled in Crotona 
in southern Italy and established a
  school of the mysteries. Before his 
students could proceed into the
  Pythagorean mysteries, they had to 
know the four sciences of arithmetic,
  music, astronomy and geometry. Plato 
was a follower of Pythagoras and it
  is to him that we owe most of our 
knowledge of the Pythagorean school.
  Pythagoras taught that, “Evolution is 
the law of life; Number is the law
  of the universe; Unity is the law of 
God.” He believed that everything in the
  universe was subject to predictable 
progressive cycles. His means of
  measuring these cycles were 
the numbers 1 through 9.
  He also taught that numbers have a 
significance apart from the values
  denoted by the figures. Numbers are 
different from figures. Numbers
  represent qualities; figures represent 
quantities. Numbers operate on the
  spiritual plane, while figures are for 
measuring things on the material plane.
  A lucid understanding of these 
digits is essential in the study of
  numerology because every number over 
9 ultimately reduces to one of these
  digits. With a comprehensive knowledge 
of the meaning of these numbers,
  one can understand the orderly 
progression of all life cycles.
  The Numbers 1 through 9.
Science claims that in a   vacuum where nothing exists, in time hydrogen
ions spring into existence. 1, as the first   digit in the series, represents the
ion, the beginning, the genesis,   the first spark of energy emerging from the
original source. It stands alone and isolated   because it is the first; there is no
other. It is independent of outside   influences or assistance because it has
chosen to seek its own self-expression,   and cannot therefore be encumbered
or swayed. It is decisive and independent   and makes the choices necessary
to ultimately determine its destiny.
  1 REPRESENTS THE MALE PRINCIPLE, 
the yang. It is the pioneer,
  striking out alone, seeking the 
experiences which will establish its
  distinct identity. It is in the process of 
discovering its own abilities. It is raw
  energy, positive, original and creative, 
in a state of perpetual motion. Since
  1 is alone and is imbued with so much 
creative energy, it must decide how
  its energy will be used. It must 
take command and have the courage to
  maintain its direction 
without fear of opposition.
  1 is the real I AM of humanity, the 
unity of all, the unit of vibrational
  measuring. It is self-consciousness.
Keywords: original, independent,   aggressive, individualistic, creative,
dominant; the first in a series, the start   of any operation or activity, the
leader, the pioneer, the boss who   likes authority. “He who goes forth.”
2 IS THE PAIR, the duo. It is changeable   and adaptable and can also be
indecisive. It is the agent,   the go-between, the diplomat and
peacemaker, because unity can only   be accomplished through a meeting of
the minds, a compromise on each side.
  2 represents the feminine principle of 
receptivity, the yin, which seeks a
  union of two distinct entities. It is the 
gestation period in which things begin
  to form. 2 collects and assimilates. 
It seeks a balance between opposing
  forces, and therefore represents 
cooperation, attachment and partnership. It
  is the peacemaker, with an avid attention 
to detail. Because 2 is so keenly
  aware of opposites, it has a pronounced 
sense of rhythm and harmony.
  Music appeals to its sympathetic 
and emotional nature. The maternal,
  patient and sensitive characteristics of 
2 cause it to place others first, before
  itself. Union is its goal, not separateness; 
therefore, it is obedient to and
  understanding of others. It seeks 
harmony and assimilation above all.
  The hydrogen ions which sprang into 
existence under 1 are now hurtling
  through space. They will be drawn 
toward one another by the law of mutual
  attraction, or the law of number 2.
Keywords: adaptable, tactful, understanding,   gentle, cautious; a follower
rather than a leader.
  3 COMBINES THE QUALITIES of 1 
and 2. It is a fascinating and
  diversified vibration, carrying the qualities 
of manifestation and self-expression. 
  The ion, which sprang into existence 
from 0, sought to assert its
  individuality under 1 and felt the 
attraction of others under 2, now awakens
  to its need for social interaction. 3 
is the need to communicate and become
  involved in the pure joy of living. 
Through its exuberant response to life, 3
  bestows sunny radiance and enthusiasm 
upon all. 3 is the extrovert whose
  personal magnetism draws others and 
inspires them to expand and grow. It
  is the performer who possesses an innate 
appreciation of pleasure, romance,
  art and beauty. Its creative imagination 
allows all things to be possible; it
  therefore becomes involved in many 
emotions and experiences. 3 is friendly
  and expansive, thriving on sociability 
and variety. If any of the numbers
  could be called happy-go-lucky, 
it would be the effervescent 3.
  Keywords: expansive, sociable, 
dramatic, communicative, diversified,
  creative.
4 IS STABILITY, a 4-square   consciousness, the symbol of law, system
and order. It is firmness, security,   stability and conservatism. It is the
builder who must submit to earthly   things where form and substance are the
predominant elements. 4 is nature and   relates to the earth. The formation of
the earth took place on the fourth day   in the biblical story of creation.
The attraction the ions felt under 2   led to interaction under 3. Now, under
4, the inevitable concentration of   energies occurs. Formation takes place.
The ions realize that they can no longer   scatter their energies, but must now
begin to place them in a productive,   orderly system. 4 therefore develops a
practical nature, and through self-discipline,   binds itself to a conventional
routine exercise of its energy.
  Keywords: form, work, order, 
practicality, construction, stability,
  endurance, discipline.
5 IS FREEDOM, change and   adventure. Curiosity and constant activity
produce a resourceful, adaptable and versatile   entity always ready to
take a chance.
  Since 5 is the midpoint in the cycle 1 
through 9, it allows for decision-making. 
  It might be called the pivotal point 
in which the ions, now encased
  in flesh and form, must decide upon 
their future in the rest of the cycle 6
  through 9. It now meets with many 
opportunities and varieties of experience 
  through which it will be given the 
information it needs to make that decision.
  5 is involved in much superficial 
interaction with groups and crowds.
  Because of its past varied experiences, 
it is the natural promoter and
  advertiser, fluent in communications, 
with a little information about a lot of
  things, and a desire to travel here and 
there to communicate it. 5 attracts the
  opposite sex because of an irresistible 
magnetism, and this attraction sets
  the stage for the domestic responsibilities 
which naturally follow under 6.
  Keywords: versatility, resourcefulness, 
adaptability, change, activity,
  travel, adventure, promotion, speculation.
6 IS CONSCIENTIOUS; it desires to   bring harmony, truth, justice and a
sense of balance into its environment.   Love and compassion are
uppermost in its mind,   and it can therefore be an effective teacher,
counselor or healer. Others are drawn to it   because of the understanding
which emanates from it.
  The ions, under 5, had the opportunity 
to experience many events and
  emotional encounters. They are now 
ready to take on social and family
  responsibilities, or the 6 vibration.
6 is a domestic and artistic vibration,   and, under this number, 
the ions must adjust to the needs of others.
  The 6 desires a close companion, 
marriage and a home and family where
  beauty and harmony prevail. A need 
for group harmony and service to the
  community follows naturally. 6 settles 
down, blending into the conservative
  element of the community, where it can 
create better standards of living.
  Gifted in the arts, it can also express 
its creative potential through its
  developed sense of balance and become 
a fine artist in its own unique field.
  Keywords: family and social 
responsibility, service, love, compassion,
  counseling, healing, creativity.
7 SEEKS ANSWERS. It tries to establish   a philosophy by which to live
and attempts to penetrate the   mystery behind its existence which it has
never questioned to this point. Because   solitude is necessary for analysis,
the 7 feels the need to spend time   alone, away from the crowds, in touch
with nature. It looks for friendship with   those of an elevated consciousness
that can match its own.
  And on the seventh day God rested. 
All things rest under the 7 because
  time is needed in which to think. The 
ions under 7 feel poised and calm;
  they realize that they now need to 
be still and to know. They have
  established a routine for their 
energy, and now analysis begins.
  7 ushers into the cycle a physical 
completion without apparent effort.
  Goals that have been long sought are 
now magically attained. Spare time is
  available in which philosophical and 
metaphysical interests can be pursued.
  Perfected thinking is the goal of 7, 
which is why it is called the sacred
  number. It is also why scientists, 
philosophers, teachers, mystics and the
  clergy come under this influence. The 
physical facet of 7 also relates to the
  health of the body which is highly 
sensitized through this vibration.
  Keywords: quiet, introspective,   intuitive, analytical, inspirational,
reclusive, philosophical, mystical.
  8 WILL ASSUME POWER, for it 
now has achieved control and
  responsibility in its chosen field. 
Recognition and financial rewards
  are bestowed, and expansion and growth 
in the business world take place.
  Under 8, karma is king, and the 
ions will reap what they have sown.
  Power is the quality associated with 
8. Ardor, zeal, steadfastness and the
  ability to see in broad terms give it 
the ambition and added qualities needed
  to achieve material goals. 8 has the 
drive to overcome all obstacles and
  eventually to succeed through ability 
and perseverance. 8 can now go to the
  very top with the ideas and plans 
that have been formulated gradually
  during the last seven cycles. Through 
fair and ethical standards, good
  judgment and organizational abilities, 
it will achieve recognition, power and
  financial remuneration.
Keywords: power, responsibility,   financial rewards, good judgment,
recognition.
  9 IS SELFLESSNESS and compassion. 
Encompassing a love for all, it
  desires to apply its energy to 
universal service. It bestows an
  impersonal but just view of life, 
one that is generous, benevolent and
  patient. This is the artist and thinker 
who has developed skills through the
  preceding cycles and is now ready to 
share his or her knowledge with the
  rest of the world.
The ions are in their final state   of completion. They have travelled the
entire cycle of nine parts, ingesting   experiences along the way. Now, in the
closing cycle, they reach a total understanding   and tolerance of others’
views and prejudices.
  9 is ready to give back to the 
universe some measure of what it has
  learned through the eight previous steps 
of the cycle. The law of cyclicity
  allows for no waste, and demands 
input for output. When this is done
  willingly, the completion experienced 
under 9 brings only joy at the gift of
  life and the freedom with which to 
enter the next cycle unencumbered.
  Keywords: love, compassion, patience, 
universality, tolerance, selfless
  service, endings.
TWO: YOUR PERSONAL NUMBERS AND PERSONAL YEARS.
  YOU ARE ENDOWED at birth 
with your own four personal
  numbers. These numbers tell you 
the lessons to be learned during
  your life and the spiritual growth 
and development which you can attain.
  The 4 personal numbers are: the Life 
Lesson Number, the Soul Number,
  the Outer Personality Number 
and the Path of Destiny Number.
  Your personal numbers are determined 
by the numbers in your birthdate
  and the letters in the name you are given 
at birth. To arrive at the numerical
  vibration of names, each letter in the 
alphabet is given a number value. A is
  1; B is 2; C is 3; and so on to Z, which is 26.
  To work with the value of the letters 
beyond I, which is number 9, we
  reduce the value to a single digit. 
For example, L is number 12. 
  We reduce the 12 by adding the 
first digit to the second; 
  or 1 + 2 equals 3. The number 12 is
then written as 12/3. The letter T is 20.
  We reduce the 20 by adding the 
first digit to the second, 
  or 2 + 0 equals 2. The number 
20 is then written as 20/2.
  The table below gives the number 
value of each letter in the alphabet.
  Learn this code thoroughly. Then you 
won’t have to keep referring to the
  table, which can be a slow and tedious 
process. The more you work with the
  code, the easier it will come to you.
Notice that there are patterns you can   learn. For example: A; J; and S, all
reduce to 1. B; K; and T, reduce to 2. C;   L; and U, reduce to 3... and so on.
Train yourself by saying over and over: 
  AJS. AJS. AJS.
BKT. BKT. BKT.
  There are memory tricks you can 
use. For instance: number 6 is FOX.
  That’s an easy one. GPY sounds 
something like gypsy for number 7 - and
  number 8, HQZ, might remind you 
of headquarters. Use your own
  memory pegs so that the code will be 
readily accessible when working out
  the value of words.
We can reduce any word to a number   vibration by using our table, so let’s
experiment with a few words before we   begin with names. Place the
number value above each letter,   add the values, and reduce the total to a
single digit, if necessary.
  There are 4 double digits which are 
not generally reduced. These are
  called the master numbers. Master 
numbers offer more opportunity for
  expression and thus demand more effort 
from the individual or thing in
  question. The master numbers are 11, 
22, 33, and 44. Whenever you arrive
  at one of these numbers, retain 
the master number value.
  For instance: take the word "LIGHT". 
3 + 9 + 7 + 8 + 2 equals 29, 
  and 2 + 9 equals 11.
Because “light” vibrates to   master number 11, it is written as 29/11 rather
than 29/2, which would be the case if we reduced   it entirely. However, 2 is
still acknowledged as the   base number, and the word in question will
fluctuate between the vibrations of 2 and 11.
  An individual will fluctuate between 
any master number and its base
  digit because the vibration of the 
master number is so intense and so
  powerful that it cannot be lived under 
continuously. Therefore, living under
  the base number for a brief period 
offers a moment of respite where one
  gathers one’s forces before attempting 
to work with the master number
  vibration again. Master numbers 
demand the greatest output from the
  individual, and, in return, 
offer the greatest reward.
  A name that vibrates to a master number is: 
MELANIE MAE CLARKE;
  which equals 65/11. 
Again, this number would   not be reduced further, because it is a master
number. However, this individual will fluctuate   between her master number
11 and the base number 2. The   word “roses” vibrates to 22: 
9 + 6 + 1 + 5 + 1 equals 22.
  We do not reduce the 22 
because it is a master number.
  In this system of numerology, we 
only use the numbers 1 to 78, for
  reasons which we explained in the 
introduction. When totaling a name, if
  you arrive at a number above 78, 
simply reduce that number to the next
  lower double digit or single digit, 
as the case may be. For example, if a
  personal number totals 86, add the 8 + 
6, and work with the 14/5 vibration.
  Or if the personal number totals 106, 
add the 1 + 0 + 6, and work with the 7
  vibration.
Remember, all double digits   that reduce to the same base number have
the same basic meaning. The double digit   reflects a variation of the single
number. You could liken this to living   in the same city but on different
streets. Therefore, the numbers 12,   21, 30, 39, 48, 57, 66 and 75 
all reflect the basic 3; however,   the double digit expresses a variation
of the original 3.
  Now that you know how to reduce any 
word, we will demonstrate how to
  arrive at your four personal numbers 
and explain what those numbers mean.
  The Life Lesson Number.
The 1st of the 4 personal   numbers we will discuss is called the Life
Lesson Number. It represents the lessons you   must learn in this lifetime and
is most significant in your   choice of a career. It is
derived from your full birthdate. Even   a business or idea has a moment of
birth, and can therefore be   treated in the same way.
We will use as an example,   Ada Wynn Lunt, born November 12, 1940.
1st, reduce the birthdate to numbers.   November is the 11th month;
therefore, Ada’s birthdate is written:   11 dash 12 dash 1940. Remember to write the
full year of birth; not an abbreviated   form such as 40. Next, reduce the
year to a double digit by adding the   year through once: 1 + 9 + 4 + 0 equals 14.
Now we total the birthdate once more:
  11 + 12 + 1940 equals 11 + 12 + 
14. 11 + 12 + 14 equals 37/1.
  37 is reduced by adding the 1st digit 
to the 2nd, or 3 + 7 which equals 10.
  Reduce the 10 in the same manner 
by adding 1 + 0. 37 is then
  written as 37/1. This is 
Ada’s Life Lesson Number.
  The Life Lesson Number is a 
constant and cannot be changed or
  modified in any way because it is 
derived from the birthdate. It indicates
  vocation plus the lesson you came into 
incarnation to overcome or to learn.
  It also represents the cosmic gift you 
are given in order to accomplish your
  destiny.
Find your Life Lesson   Number by following the same procedure. Then
read the delineation of the Life Lesson   Number single digit below. For a
finer delineation of the double digit,   go to Part 2 of this book.
In our example, Ada has a 37 or   1 Life Lesson Number. She would read
number 1 under the Life Lesson Number   section following. She would then
turn to Part 2 page 120 for the   delineation of the 37 - a more explicit
description of the basic number 1.
  1 AS THE LIFE LESSON: You 
must learn to be original,
  strong-willed, creative and innovative. 
You should have the courage
  and drive to go ahead into new fields 
of expression and be a pioneer. You
  should always go forward, never turn 
back. At times you may be dictatorial
  and stubborn because you do not like to 
be restricted or directed. You are a
  good executive, and work best alone. You 
are usually efficient and well-organized. 
  You are not naturally domestic 
but can manage well in any
  situation. You usually like sports and 
athletics, and enjoy the thrill of
  winning. You are sophisticated, not 
emotionally romantic, and always
  appear at the head of social and 
commercial groups. By learning the lessons
  of number 1, you become intimately 
familiar with the God energy, that
  probing, seeking, independent spark 
that moves all creation. You are
  creative on the physical plane because 
your pioneer spirit precedes all
  others, and expresses your unique individuality.
2 AS THE LIFE LESSON: You are here to   learn to become a
good mixer. You are a   good salesperson, more persuasive than
forceful. You should be a support for   those in the leadership role, help them
to find their goals in life, and remain   behind the scenes if necessary. This
quality can be a help to you in   business because those who benefit from
your talents will in turn help you make use   of your abilities. In partnerships
and groups, you will encounter the   lessons you came to learn in this
lifetime. Success is then very possible.   You must have consideration for
others, and should bring people   together for a common cause. Various
professions are open to you as you learn   to be adaptable to most things that
need to be done. You could select   a career in finance, music, medicine,
religion or statistical analysis and research.
  3 AS THE LIFE LESSON: You 
are best in intellectual,
  artistic or creative endeavors. You 
need to express, to manifest and to
  see the results of your work. Beauty, 
fruitfulness, luxury and pleasure are
  your keywords. You should have 
ambition and pride. You must become
  conscious of the law, and, by being 
an excellent disciplinarian, you will
  achieve a position of authority over 
others. 3 combines the daring of 1 with
  the caution of 2. It is a number of 
self-expression and freedom and is
  extravagant in using energies to 
gain freedom. You must guard against
  becoming a jack-of-all-trades; rather, 
you should specialize. You could then
  be successful in artistic, religious or 
inventive pursuits. You should never do
  routine work because you dislike 
restriction. You should work alone for the
  best results. Business partnerships 
become too disciplined for your
  freedom-loving nature. You could write, 
lecture, teach or find your niche in
  journalism. Whatever you decide to 
specialize in, you must use your
  creative and inspirational talents.
4 AS THE LIFE LESSON: You must build a solid
  foundation on which to base your 
life. This demands a well-ordered
  system of conduct and morals. 
Administration or some sort of management
  would be the best type of employment 
for you. You want your home life to
  conform to the culture in which you 
live. You will provide well for those
  within your care, and you expect them 
to respond with respect and dignity.
  You should become a diligent worker 
and honestly earn your success. By
  being thrifty, you will have an adequate 
savings account as security against
  any possible losses. You should learn 
not to take a chance unless it is a sure
  bet. You should seek high goals. You 
might want to achieve concrete results
  quickly, and therefore should strive 
for patience and perseverance. Learn to
  face reality, and base all your 
efforts on sound practical reasoning.
  5 AS THE LIFE LESSON: Your 
keyword is freedom. If you
  have free rein you can accomplish 
wonders, but if you feel bound
  or limited, you lose your enthusiasm 
and accomplish little. You would be a
  good explorer or Peace Corps volunteer, 
as you learn well by travel and
  experience. You are a diligent student 
if interested in the subject, but you
  may fail in subjects for which you see 
no useful ends. You should be eager
  for new experience, and shun monotony. 
In your quest for knowledge, you
  will become interested in discovering 
answers in books and magazines. An
  avid reader, a fluent talker, and a 
versatile doer, you are the witty
  conversationalist, and brighten any 
group by your mere presence. You are
  here to learn and to experience the 
value of freedom, and should not tie
  yourself down too severely. Your 
talents, once learned, prepare you for a
  literary career or a position in 
sales, and dealing with the public.
  6 AS THE LIFE LESSON NUMBER: You 
are here to learn a sense of
  responsibility for your family 
and community. 6 is the love and
  domestic vibration and requires that 
you be responsive to the social needs
  of others. A fine sense of balance must 
be acquired so that you can equalize
  injustices. This keen sense bestows 
artistic abilities as well as judgmental
  talents which can be utilized in the 
legal system. You should develop the
  compassion and understanding necessary 
to ease the burdens of those who
  will naturally be drawn to you. You 
are among those who serve, teach and
  bring comfort to humanity. A wide choice 
of professions is yours including
  nursing, teaching, welfare work, 
the ministry, medicine, restaurant
  enterprises, the legal profession 
and possibly veterinary or animal
  husbandry. You may also choose to 
enter a career in the arts, interior
  decorating or hairdressing.
7 AS THE LIFE LESSON: You are here to use and to
  develop your mind. Your words 
should be full of wisdom when you
  decide to talk. Your strong intuition 
helps in any line you choose and gives
  insight when needed. You may be an 
enigma to others, and even to yourself
  at times. You like to read, think and 
meditate. Many times you have to rely
  on your soul-force to solve difficult 
material problems. You may delve into
  the occult, the mysterious and the 
phenomenal side of life. Music and other
  arts are in harmony with your keynotes. 
You may be drawn to the church,
  science or research and analysis. A 
career in mathematics or investigation
  could hold your interest. You should 
learn to spend time by yourself, in the
  woods or by the seashore, where you 
can get in touch with your inner self
  and your deepest thoughts because 
your destiny is to use your mind.
  8 AS THE LIFE LESSON NUMBER: 
This is the number of power and
  ambition, the number of the executive, 
the boss, who lives by brain
  and brawn. You will learn to work 
and will want to see everyone else
  working. You can push people to become 
successful in their own right. You
  should lead and show by example how to 
profit in business. You are here to
  learn to handle power, authority 
and money. You can build a business
  empire and should work to that end. 
You want success for your family and
  for the family name as a matter of 
pride. You want your offspring to carry
  on your name with honor and dignity. 
Sports is another field open to you, as
  this number vibration bestows great 
strength and endurance. Many famous
  athletes operate under an 8.
9 AS THE LIFE LESSON NUMBER:   You should be the universal lover
  of humanity, patient, kind and 
understanding. You are at the peak of
  life’s expression, and must turn and 
show others the way. You seem to
  receive wisdom from above; thus you 
know that the true way of happiness
  is in service to others. You are the 
marrying type, strong in passion and
  compassion. You easily acquire 
money or wealth, and know how to
  preserve it. You are never petty but 
deal in broad concepts and can attain
  success in the face of difficulties. 
You are here to show others the way,
  through your breadth of thinking. You 
can choose from many professions;
  education and medicine are the most usual.
You may become an orator,
  writer or lecturer with equal ease. 
Communication, foreign service,
  statesmanship and leadership positions 
are easily within your capacity.
  11 AS THE LIFE LESSON: the 
keywords here are altruism
  and community. You came into a unique 
and testing incarnation. You must
  practice “love thy neighbor as thyself” 
and use it as your foundation. Your
  strong intuitions are of value in gaining 
wisdom and inspiration. 11 is one
  of the most difficult vibrations because 
the demand for high standards is
  constant. You must learn patience 
and at the same time be able to make
  quick decisions. Seek for balance between 
the material, physical life which
  has to be considered, and the inspirational, 
spiritual life which underlies
  your self-understanding. You can succeed 
in the field of science, because all
  new inventions and discoveries such as 
the laser rays, research in the fields
  of anti-gravity or kirlian photography 
or any area of electronics would
  appeal to you. You could choose to 
be an astronomer or astrologer, or a
  Bible researcher and interpreter. You 
may become a teacher or writer in the
  field of philosophy. You are original 
and creative, and could become an
  inspirational speaker. 11 is an esoteric 
master number of spiritual import. It
  bestows courage, power and talent with 
strong feelings of leadership. You
  must not let this power go to your 
head, since fame and recognition are
  likely; instead realize that 
true mastership is service.
  22 AS THE LIFE LESSON : You must express a basic
  building urge, accomplish things in a 
big way, and work with large groups
  or business concerns. You would enjoy 
the import-export business which
  could demand long-distance travel and 
meetings with persons of authority.
  You like to take an inspirational 
idea and put it to practical use. 
  Self-knowledge is very valuable to you. 
22 gives the promise of success. You
  know how to use your ability to adjust 
the physical laws of life and living,
  to demonstrate exoteric wisdom rather 
than esoteric. You could become an
  executive in banking or financial affairs 
in a national capacity, or help to
  organize businesses for others as an 
efficiency expert or the like. As an
  ambassador to foreign countries, you 
would demonstrate statesmanship.
  You like to be occupied in some large 
enterprise to challenge your power to
  achieve. Your lesson is to learn to 
take charge of large organizations and
  corporations and to handle money 
efficiently and usefully for the benefit of
  large groups of people.
33 AS THE LIFE LESSON: You should be steady and
  reliable and develop a strong desire to 
protect others. You would like to live
  close to nature, and this urge may 
influence you to choose a life in
  agriculture. Your goal would be to 
produce food on a large scale to help
  provide sustenance for the hungry of 
the world. You would never be found
  in any profession that could act 
destructively to humanity. Your talent may
  lie along the line of the arts — music 
to bring harmony, painting to bring
  beauty, or literature to promote education. 
Service in the field of medicine
  and healing could also attract you. 
Possibly you would choose the law as a
  way to protect others through justice. 
Since the 33 consciousness is almost
  beyond that of humanity, and is Christ-like 
in expression, a place within the
  ministry or priesthood could lead 
you to the realm of your dreams as a
  world savior. You may be required to 
sacrifice your own desires for the
  needs of others in order to fulfill 
your Life Lesson vibration.
  44 AS THE LIFE LESSON: This 
number stands for strength
  and complete mental control over your 
life while on earth. It requires
  discipline in every department of life 
so that you may be instrumental in
  promoting the material advancement 
of the world. Your mind must be
  trained to let the higher forces work 
within it, and you must keep your body
  and your environment in order, so that 
you are ready for any opportunity to
  achieve these same results for others. 
Your high energy potential is meant to
  further evolution by helping others set 
their world in order. You should try
  to promote better ethics and justice 
in the world of business. You must
  recognize reality, then use what you 
learn to alleviate the physical burdens
  of others. You are the instrument by 
which this alteration takes place. By
  displaying bravery, resourcefulness, 
courage and discipline, you serve as an
  example for others. See Edgar 
Cayce in Chapter 6 as an example
  of the 44 vibration.
The Soul Number.
  The Soul Number comes from adding 
the vowels in the name. Always work
  with the full name at birth. Prefixes 
and suffixes such as Mr., Mrs., 
  Jr., Sr., II, III, and Esquire 
are not considered part of 
  the cosmic name, and are not 
figured in the total name. 
  Place the number value of the 
vowels above the letter in
  the name. The vowels are A, E, I, O, 
and U. The letter Y is a vowel when it
  sounds like E, as in the name Mary. It 
is not a vowel in the name May. Y is
  also a vowel when it is the only vowel 
in the syllable, as in the name Sybil.
  W is a vowel when it follows D 
or G as in the names Dwight or
  Gwendolyn, because it carries the vowel sound.
We will use our example, Ada Wynn Lunt,   born November 12, 1940. To
arrive at Ada’s Soul Number,   we add the vowels in her name:
1 + 1 + 7 + 3 equals 12, or 3.
  The Y in Wynn is considered a vowel 
because it is the only vowel in the
  name. The 12 is reduced by adding the 
1st digit to the 2nd, or 1 + 2 equals 3.
  The number 12 is then written 12/3.
Discover your Soul Number by following   the same procedure. Then read
the explanation of the basic Soul   Number (single digit) given below. For a
finer delineation of the double digit,   turn to Part 2.
In our example, Ada has a Soul   Number of 12 or 3. She would read number
3 under the Basic Soul Number section   which follows. She would then turn
to Part 2 and read the number 12/3   Personal Number Vibration which gives
a deeper look into her real self.
  Your Soul Number is your real personality, 
the you that is known only to
  you. If one embraces the philosophy of 
reincarnation, the Soul Number also
  indicates what you have been in 
previous lifetimes. This part of your
  personality is not easily recognized 
by others unless they know you very
  well. The Soul Number is what you, in 
your inner secret self, desire to be.
  This urge may be so strong that it 
can overcome other vibrations of your
  four basic numbers. Since the 
Soul Number reveals something of
  accumulated growth in past lives, it 
becomes an underlying force which
  influences the actions of your present 
life. If, however, the soul urge
  remains repressed by outer circumstances, 
and the soul fails to accomplish
  its purpose, it may need to repeat the 
same vibrational urge in a future life,
  until it finds true expression.
1 AS THE SOUL NUMBER:   The leadership won in past lives now
brings a desire to continue striving   for higher consciousness. You are
independent regarding your beliefs.   Your desire for free and independent
thinking continues to occupy your   innermost yearning. Do not let this
strong drive obstruct your attainment   of practical goals in the present life.
You are always conscious of your inner   strength and would have difficulty
taking a secondary position among your   contemporaries. If marriage or
partnership is considered,   investigate the inner yearnings of your
prospective partner to safeguard   the successful outcome of your
relationship. If your individuality   is too strong, it could express itself as
bossiness and be a detriment to personal   happiness. So firm is the intensity
of your focus and so strong the memory   of self-glory from the past that you
are apt to stand on your convictions even   though it could disrupt important
relationships. Your inner strength   gives you something to rely on when the
going is rough, and you can be a tower of   inspiration to others in times of
trouble.
  2 AS THE SOUL NUMBER: You have 
a strong desire for peace and
  harmony. You are considerate and 
tactful, adaptable and gentle. You
  are a follower rather than a leader. 
Tact is a strong point in your makeup;
  therefore, you are a go-between or 
agent, helping to bring peace between
  opposing forces. You avoid hurting the 
feelings of others to the point of
  subordinating yourself to their wills. 
As a result, you appear shy and lacking
  in confidence. Try to overcome indecision; 
while you are hesitating, others
  may forge ahead of you and claim what 
should be yours. Dare to do what
  you know is right and do not let 
emotions deter your purpose. Your
  sensitivity can be positive when used 
to tune in to the balancing forces of
  the universe and bring forth 
truths which help all people gain
  understanding.
3 AS THE SOUL NUMBER:   You are very conscientious in regard to
duty. You are well aware of the law   of the Trinity, and know that
inspiration and imagination will   bring the best results when used to help
others. This could easily become your   philosophy of life. Follow your urge
to create and expand the activities   that interest you. You seek happiness and
find it in making others happy. If a person   feels depressed, a visit with you
will bring them hope and courage.   Expand your ideals by dedicating
yourself to the expression of good   cheer and optimism. Work to make your
dreams come true, but not to the   extreme of becoming impractical. Love is
important to you, both in giving and receiving;   but try to hold to reason
in your loving expansiveness.
  You become happy and well-adjusted 
by making others happy.
  4 AS THE SOUL NUMBER: You are 
well organized, a trait which
  could bring you material success. 
Your practicality permeates your
  entire being. Others could set a pattern 
after your well-ordered program of
  living. Your loyalty, balance and 
dependability mean much to those around
  you. They know where you stand in all 
things and feel that any dealings
  with you will be handled squarely. You 
take matters seriously, whether in
  business or romance, and can therefore 
make your dreams come true in a
  planned, practical way.
5 AS THE SOUL NUMBER:   You claim the right to freedom and will
not allow any limitations of your   ideals or ways of thinking. Variety of
self-expression is absolutely essential.   You would feel dull and listless
without the stimulation of changes and   new outlooks. Travel is one of your
soul’s desires since you believe   it to be educational and broadening.
Narrowness cannot be tolerated. If you feel   yourself falling into a rut, a trip,
a new outfit or a vacation could   change the vibrations for the better and
open new avenues for continued inner growth.
  6 AS THE SOUL NUMBER: You 
respond to beauty, harmony and
  peace. You are affectionate, sympathetic 
and loyal to those you love.
  Your mission could be to teach others 
to maintain peace and harmony in
  their lives and to spread the idea of 
the Golden Rule. You work hard to keep
  domestic harmony as your ideal way of 
life. Of all the love vibrations in the
  various numbers, yours is the most likely 
to be guilty of a smothering love,
  so deep is your desire to live for your 
own immediate family. Learn to allow
  your family members to express their 
own desires in life, even if you do not
  agree with their choices.
7 AS THE SOUL NUMBER:   You are quiet and reserved, a good
thinker, analyzer and mediator.   You need peaceful surroundings and
become irritable if your environment   is noisy. You are refined, sensitive,
secretive and usually psychic. You may   live alone and remain unmarried.
You could be celibate and join the   higher mystical order of humanity. Your
true nature is to be calm, to develop depth   of character, and thus to benefit
humanity through philosophy.
  8 AS THE SOUL NUMBER: Ambition 
is your keyword. You believe in
  accomplishment and let no obstacle 
deter you in attaining your goal.
  Your number is not an easy one to 
handle, but the rewards are worth your
  effort. You are one who will tackle 
a big job in order to rise above the
  crowd and arrive at the pinnacle. You 
have the ability to organize large
  groups and undertakings successfully. 
Psychology will help you understand
  the masses with whom you may work. 
Others expect more of you than of
  the average person, so you must rely 
upon your inner self to guide you to
  stay at the top. This is the number 
of high-ranking sports figure.
  9 AS THE SOUL NUMBER: Intuition 
is strongly active in your life.
  You are sensitive and imaginative 
and can think in abstract terms.
  Although you may appear vague 
at times, you are extremely
  impressionable, compassionate and 
generous. You need to have and to give
  love. You are kind and forgiving, 
with an expansive consciousness
  dedicated to uplifting humanity. This 
could be the number of a master or
  adept from a previous lifetime.
11 AS THE SOUL NUMBER: You have   been on the spiritual path for a
long time, probably for more than   one incarnation. Through spiritual
evolution you have learned much of   the mysteries of life and death. You
have courage, talent and leadership   ability. You are understanding, wise,
intuitive and often clairvoyant,   with extremely sensitive ESP abilities and
strong spiritual leanings. You also have the   fortitude to contend with many
changes and unexpected events.
  22 AS THE SOUL NUMBER: With the 
power of 22 you have the urge
  to continue the tangible achievements 
of past lifetimes. You desire material
  fulfillment. You are the master builder. 
Your soul’s aim is to leave the world
  a tangibly better place for your having 
been here, so it follows that you
  must keep mental balance while expressing 
your ideals in practical ways.
  You have higher goals than the average 
person. You should keep your feet
  on the ground while your thoughts expand.
33 AS THE SOUL NUMBER:   You are ready to sacrifice for humanity.
You see clearly a vision of future world   conditions and feel ready to help in
any way you can to bring peace to all   mankind. Sometimes your life lesson
vibrations can be in opposition to your   soul’s urges; nevertheless, you will
practice generosity and try to see   other people’s points of view. This
circumstance may force you temporarily   to take a background position but
the hope remains that you will reach   a position to promote your ideals. You
stand ever ready to help others.
  44 AS THE SOUL NUMBER: Universal 
concepts are part of your
  consciousness; they now express 
themselves as inner urges to accomplish
  great advances in world culture. You 
desire to unite the practical with the
  philosophical. A career within the 
government or in the United Nations
  could give you the opportunity to 
promote these ideals among all peoples.
  You are willing to shoulder heavy 
responsibilities. Your inner self realizes
  that it is adept; now the problem 
becomes how to manifest it in the outer
  world. You believe that your soul 
will guide you into fields where your
  great expectations can be promoted. 
You have an innate ability to solve
  everyday problems and can work with 
others to help them organize their
  lives.
The Outer Personality Number.
  Now that you have discovered the real 
you through your Soul Number, let
  us determine how other people see 
you. Your Outer Personality Number
  indicates how you appear to others; it 
is not necessarily what you really are.
  The Outer Personality Number also 
shows what people expect from you
  because of the image you present.
To find the Outer Personality Number,   add the values of the consonants
in the full name at birth. Consonants   are all those letters other than vowels.
Place the value of the consonants   below the name, and add each digit
together. In our example, Ada Wynn Lunt: 
  4 + 5 + 5 + 5 + 3 + 5 + 2 equals 29/11.
29 reduces by adding the 1st digit to the   2nd, or 2 + 9 equals 11. 11 is a
master number and is therefore not   reduced further. Other people see Ada
Wynn Lunt as a 29/11, although this is   not what she necessarily is.
As in the preceding section,   the basic numbers will be delineated here.
Ada would read 11 as an Outer Personality Number,   and then turn to Part 2
of this book for a finer   delineation of the basic 11 as a 29/11.
If your Outer Personality Number were 49/4,   for instance, you would
read 4 as an Outer Personality   Number here, then turn to Part 2 to read
49/4 as a Personal Number Vibration, which   is a finer delineation of the
basic 4.
  Personality comes from the word 
persona meaning mask and therefore
  represents the mask we present to others. 
It is important because through it
  other basic vibrational urges are expressed. 
A pleasing personality is a great
  asset in all areas of life to help attain 
spiritual, mental or physical goals. Our
  body language, mannerisms, and 
traits, even the way we dress, reveal
  much more than we realize. They are 
clues which others use to determine
  our attitudes and characteristics.
1 AS THE OUTER PERSONALITY NUMBER: You present an
  independent, capable and executive-type 
image to the world. Others
  see you as a unique individual, separate 
from the ordinary crowd, perhaps a
  loner in some respects, but definitely 
different. They expect you to be able
  to take control of any situation and 
be able to run an organization or club
  efficiently. They will look to you to 
get the job done because you appear to
  be the leader, the pioneer, the idea 
person who always knows where to go
  and what to do. The creation of the 
correct image is foremost in your mind,
  and you depend upon the force of your 
personality as your identification
  pass into society. You may appear to 
be overly aggressive and domineering.
  In this case, your selfish need to assert 
your individuality is realized at the
  expense of the free expression of 
those around you. You, as a number 1
  person, dress to be among the first in 
style. You like exclusive models and
  never want to look like anyone else. 
Negatively, you may even dress
  freakishly or in modes beyond 
the limits of good taste.
  2 AS THE OUTER PERSONALITY 
NUMBER: You appear quiet and
  modest and seem to need a peaceful 
environment in which to live. You
  are fussy about details; neatness and 
cleanliness are a must. Rather than
  make a big entrance, you prefer to 
remain in the background, working
  behind the scenes or in cooperation 
with others. You are attractive and
  popular with the opposite sex. This 
is partly due to your desire for
  companionship and harmony which 
prompts you to indulge others. You
  seem incomplete by yourself. You can 
appear to be restless and dissatisfied
  with conditions because of the mental 
balancing you perform on every
  situation. You may have difficulty in 
making decisions because both sides
  are so clear to you. On occasion, you 
can display a temper and use cutting
  words. You dress neatly and 
inconspicuously, preferring a balanced,
  pleasing look. You should choose 
easy-to-wear styles of clothing that reflect
  your more passive and artistic nature.
3 AS THE OUTER PERSONALITY NUMBER:   You are extremely
charming, affable and   sociable. You have an attractive manner and
desire pleasure and fun. Loyalty and honesty   enhance your idealistic nature.
Communication is a vital part of   your personality, and you have a facile
manner of expression. An avid conversationalist,   you shine in the midst of
any group. You are like the sun,   lighting up the world of those you
encounter, spreading sunshine and   optimism wherever you go. Others
naturally cluster around your warmth.   Your extroverted popularity can
become so great that it could   cause your downfall through conceit and
jealousy. Then your conversational talents   may degenerate into gossip,
exaggeration and superficiality.   If you are a woman, you may be beautiful,
with a well-rounded figure. You like personal   adornment - jewelry, scarves,
makeup - and have an artistic   flair in choosing your clothing. On the
negative side, you can possess a slovenly   beauty and be careless about the
styles you choose and the   way you care for your clothing.
4 AS THE OUTER PERSONALITY NUMBER: You present a
  determined, work-oriented 
attitude to the world. You appear
  conservative, self-disciplined and 
practical. You desire an orderly existence
  through which your ability for physical 
and mental application will produce
  conventional and useful results. You 
are the honest, hard-working type who
  respects values and industry. You 
like the earth, nature, your home and
  country. You can appear so disciplined 
that there is no time for play, which
  can isolate you from others. Overly 
cautious and frugal, you can become
  defensive and stingy. Crudeness and 
bad temper could remove you further
  from social contacts. Or, as an 
opposite reaction, you could appear
  completely undisciplined and lazy. 
Good sports clothes appeal to you, as
  they are designed for hard use and need 
little care. You select your clothes
  for service, insist on good quality 
materials, and often have them tailormade. 
  You want to look neat and trim at 
all times. You are conservative in
  dress as well as conduct.
5 AS THE OUTER PERSONALITY NUMBER: You are a good
  conversationalist, bright, sparkling 
and witty, and will therefore have
  much interchange with groups of people. 
You are magnetic to the opposite
  sex and possess strong sensual appetites. 
Because change and freedom are
  so essential, there may be a quick 
turnover in your relationships. You like
  constant activity, variety and change 
and believe that change is progress.
  You must be able to do what you want, 
when and how you want to do it, in
  order to produce up to your capacity. 
You have a natural curiosity and are
  likely to take chances. Others see you 
as a natural salesperson, advertiser or
  promoter. Overdoing social interchange 
and desire for sensual indulgences
  can lead to excesses in eating, drinking, 
drugs or sexual contacts. You can
  become fickle, restless and undependable. 
You like to be among the best
  dressed on the fashion list or at least 
be ahead in style, and you wear bright
  colors in good taste.
6 AS THE OUTER PERSONALITY NUMBER: You emanate a
  protective vibration and a sense of 
responsibility for others. People are
  drawn to you for counseling, teaching 
and healing because you have a
  motherly or fatherly appearance which 
lends comfort and security. The
  home seems very important to you. 
You are optimistic, cheerful and
  reliable. You appear to love beauty and 
all things connected with the arts.
  You have a fine sense of balance and 
symmetry and can therefore see all the
  pieces as separate and yet part of the 
whole. A social consciousness urges
  you to seek truth and justice. You could 
become a slave to others, especially
  in the home, and your social responsibility 
could degenerate into social
  irresponsibility or interference in the 
affairs of others. In choosing clothing,
  you are careful yet display an artistic 
flair, preserving a tasteful color
  harmony in whatever combinations you choose. 
You prefer comfortable, easy to wear 
  styles rather than exclusive models, 
although you are particular 
  in choosing soft and flowing 
materials. Negatively, you could
  be a casual housekeeper and be 
careless about how you dress.
  7 AS THE OUTER PERSONALITY NUMBER: You have the
  appearance of being a loner, enjoying 
your moments of solitude away
  from the crowds. Nature and periodic 
trips into the woods or time spent by
  the seashore provide the proper climate 
for your philosophic temperament.
  There is an air of mystery and 
secrecy about you. You seem to be the
  philosopher, mystic, poet, thinker, 
scientist and researcher whose temporary
  withdrawals allow time for further 
probing. A keen power of observation
  aids you in mentally analyzing any 
situation. You have an aristocratic air, a
  personal dignity and a refined manner 
and seem to possess an unshakable
  faith in the future. If you become tangled 
in materialism, you will find only
  disappointment and lose your poise 
and become frustrated, gloomy and
  withdrawn. Confusion, fear and 
pessimism then take over. You are neat,
  well-groomed and inclined towards 
wearing pastels or dark shades. You
  avoid loud colors and dress 
in good taste. If you become
  unhappy, you are then indifferent 
to the way you dress, and 
  neglect the so-called petty details of 
color, harmony and matching outfits.
  8 AS THE OUTER PERSONALITY 
NUMBER: You have a dynamic
  personality and people recognize 
your authority because you appear
  affluent and in control. There is an 
air of the executive about you; one who
  can manage big business and direct the 
affairs of commerce. You emanate a
  personal power and strength which 
brings recognition wherever you go.
  You appear authoritative, impartial 
and ethical. You seem to possess an
  endless font of physical stamina and 
endurance. Your personal power could
  lead you into situations where you 
might abuse that power. Materialism
  then overcomes your better judgments 
and you can become retaliatory and
  cruel if crossed. A successful appearance 
is your standard and you insist
  your clothes be well made and of good materials.
You would never wear cheap articles. 
  Carried to extremes, you appear 
flashy, the gambler or sport,
  desiring to impress others by wearing 
loud clothes and by flaunting large
  rolls of bills. A female might wear 
too many jewels and exhibit expensive
  clothes even though they may 
have come from the thrift shop.
  9 AS THE OUTER PERSONALITY 
NUMBER: You appear to have a
  breadth of understanding as well 
as a personal magnetism that is
  universal in scope. Your warm, friendly 
and charming manner pleases all
  you come in contact with, and the 
selflessness that you emanate makes you
  loved by many. You seem to have a 
tolerance and compassion for others
  that allows you to forgive and forget 
easily. You are generous towards the
  needy and exemplify humanitarian 
traits. Others see you as emotional and
  romantic, as the idealist who believes 
that the progress of the world justifies
  personal sacrifice. Emotionalism can 
overtake you, and then you become
  susceptible to every sad story that 
comes along. At this point, you scatter
  your energies and emotions wastefully. 
Bitterness can result. You dress
  artistically with a dramatic flair, 
although you desire that your clothes be
  smooth-fitting and comfortable. You 
may be beautiful in face and figure,
  and if you take care of your skin 
and maintain good posture, you may
  remain young-looking for years.
  11 AS THE OUTER PERSONALITY 
NUMBER: You are an inspiration
  to others who see in you a refinement 
and an artistic genius which moves
  their very soul. Avant-garde art 
is your preference and you seem to
  epitomize unusual and innovative 
techniques. Recognition and fame may
  very likely be bestowed upon you 
because of artistic or humanitarian
  endeavors. You appear to be the 
visionary who believes in equal
  opportunity for all regardless of sex, 
race, creed or color. Your idealism can
  degenerate into egocentricity in which 
case your many talents are dissipated
  or lie fallow. Your mind then seeks 
unhealthy outlets for its genius which
  can bring notoriety. Your eyes emit a 
spiritual light that can inspire others to
  achieve their potential, as they witness 
what you have done. Your dress is
  original in style and you may design 
your own clothes because you have the
  artistic flair and inventiveness to do 
so, and you prefer to be different.
  22 AS THE OUTER PERSONALITY 
NUMBER: You appear as the
  masterly, diplomatic type who can 
handle all situations in a practical,
  efficient manner. You seem to have 
control over the material world and
  have the ability to make profound 
changes that could alter the course of
  history. You are a super-power who 
gives freely of finances to charity and
  organizations that benefit large groups 
of people. Your power can extend to
  the international level; you should 
perform material service for the world.
  Unprecedented power placed in your 
hands can cause you to become
  power-hungry and, rather than serve 
others, you may exploit them out of
  greed. You then become indifferent to 
the needs of others and are not above
  committing dishonest acts to achieve 
your goals. You are usually careful
  about your dress, choosing high quality 
materials and conservative styles.
  Clothes fit you as though they 
were made especially for you. 
  33 AS THE OUTER PERSONALITY 
NUMBER: You strike others as
  modest, humble and charitable. You 
always seem to gravitate to places
  where you are needed and you give more 
than you receive. Generous at all
  times, you do not look for rewards; 
you appear to be a natural giver. You
  love children and animals, and express 
kindness and tenderness towards
  them. People feel they can tell you 
their problems and you will understand.
  Sensitivity to the woes of others can 
lead you into futile self-sacrifice, and
  you deny yourself for others who 
often have no intention of bettering
  themselves. Then your martyrdom is 
useless, falling on barren ground. You
  dress in dignified styles, choosing 
your clothes carefully. Your conduct is
  proper and refined.
44 AS THE OUTER PERSONALITY NUMBER: You have a
  disciplined, almost military bearing, 
walking straight with shoulders held
  high. This inspires confidence in 
you from others wherever you go. You
  seem to know where you are going, 
what you are going to do, and how you
  are going to do it. There is a down-to-earth 
practical quality about you that
  comforts others. They sense that 
your common sense can solve their
  everyday problems and set the material 
world back in order for them. You
  may be so earth-oriented that 
you become mired in drudgery and
  responsibility. Then you lose sight of 
the source from which you sprang. At
  this point, your spiritual progress will suffer. 
You enjoy wearing a uniform-type outfit and   often buy tailored clothing. 
You may add a military touch,   using stripes, bars or 
distinctive buttons in an effective manner.
  The Path of Destiny.
You have at this point explored   your Life Lesson Number (your birthdate),
your Soul Number (the vowels in your   name) and your Outer Personality
Number (the consonants in your name).   We will now take the total of your
entire name, which is determined by   adding the unreduced Soul Number
and the unreduced Outer Personality   Number together. This is your Path of
Destiny Number. It shows what you must do   in this lifetime, what you came
here to manifest.
  By adding the unreduced Soul 
Number to the unreduced Outer
  Personality Number in Ada Wynn 
Lunt’s name, we arrive at 41/5.
  Ada Wynn Lunt’s Path of Destiny 
Number is 41/5, and this is what she
  must do as a lifetime pursuit. Ada 
would now read 5 as the basic Path of
  Destiny Number in the following section. 
She would then turn to Part 2 and
  read 41/5 as a Personal Number Vibration, 
which is a finer delineation of
  the basic 5 vibration.
This number represents your aim   in life; in other words, it shows the path
you must walk, what you should accomplish,   what you must be. Although
you may modify it somewhat by   name changes, the birthname destiny is
always the power behind any change,   and will persist in its desire for
expression throughout your life.
  1 AS THE PATH OF DESTINY: You 
represent the real “I am” conscious 
  of self as the center of 
your world, concerned with
  your individual desires and seeking 
self-preservation above all else. You use
  your resources for your own pleasure and 
have little interest in the needs of
  others. This is not necessarily bad, since 
you are here to develop the self but
  you must not allow this to be carried 
to the extreme of selfishness. You may
  be a newcomer to the earth plane 
where all beginning lessons are to be
  learned. The words you most often use 
are “I” and “I am.” Leadership is
  your keyword, and you must accept 
the destiny of leading while others
  follow. Your own independent initiative 
will help you attain success through
  your determination to stand for 
your beliefs even under duress. By
  exhibiting self-reliance and demonstrating 
your ability to win, you will
  succeed under all circumstances.
2 AS THE PATH OF DESTINY:   Your desire for peace puts
you in the role of a peacemaker.   Your destiny could lead you to act as
ambassador of good will to foreign nations   and thus bring untold benefits to
all mankind. Use your inborn tact   and diplomacy to handle difficult
situations in life. A mission as peacemaker   is a magic gift for creating a
better world in which to live.
  You also have a keen sense of 
opposites which allows you to develop
  your talents along creative lines. By 
expanding this awareness, you not only
  maximize your artistic potential, but 
you also enhance your abilities as a
  mediator and a useful companion. 
You become an integral part of any
  organization or group with 
which you become affiliated.
  3 AS THE PATH OF DESTINY 
NUMBER: You have talents which
  give you a choice of occupations or 
hobbies. Your destiny is that of
  one who uplifts and inspires others. 
You should play center stage and
  develop your talent for expression 
and communication through drama,
  elocution or foreign languages. Explore 
the arts. Study the religions of the
  world. This could be a constructive 
outlet for your energies, since you have
  a natural inclination toward spiritual 
philosophies. Your occupation could
  encompass therapy for others, 
as well as self-improvement.
  If you wish to be a success, use your 
time wisely. Do not scatter your
  energies in too many directions 
at once and thus postpone the
  accomplishment of a worthwhile 
destiny. Promote friendship among your
  peers by being a friend when a 
friend is needed. You spread joy and
  sunshine through your ability for 
self-expression. Keep optimism as your
  trademark.
4 AS THE PATH OF DESTINY:   Your destiny is to build
tangible and useful products.   You need to see what you have built. 4 is
the builder of the world, the rock upon   which all earthly substance is
formed. You are well organized   in your thinking and can manage your
particular establishment with efficiency.   You emanate a quality of stability.
As a result, others will rely on you   to get the job done efficiently and
properly. You handle money well and   might therefore find the financial
world a fertile spot for your talents.
  Your keywords are impatience, honesty, 
determination and confidence.
  You demand obedience in the family and 
will practice self-denial in order to
  fulfill duties, either real or imagined. 
Your keen sense of value makes you
  dislike the mediocre. You know that 
what is worth having is worth working
  and waiting for.
5 AS THE PATH OF DESTINY: Many changes occur in
  your life, and your mission might 
well be to promote progress through
  a willingness to accept change. You are 
definitely not keyed to the old order
  or to outworn ideas and set principles. 
You are willing to adopt new
  concepts and new points of understanding, 
even to the extent of daring to
  claim the liberty to suggest new ways 
of doing things, and you have the
  ability to present the new in logical 
and acceptable terms. You make
  stepping stones of changes and cleverly 
turn them into growth experiences.
  You do not, however, forget conventions 
since you are really not a rebel.
  Instead, you propose new ideas to 
promote enlightenment; you have the
  courage and willingness to let go of 
the old and experiment with the new.
  You are very fluent and expressive 
with words and could find writing,
  lecturing or selling the perfect 
outlet for these talents.
  6 AS THE PATH OF DESTINY: This is a domestic
  vibration. You love home and family 
life. You are the marrying type
  and your family is your main 
interest. You are morally good and
  respectable, trustworthy and generous. 
You like the comforts and luxuries of
  life. You are a good mixer, a good 
host or hostess; you greet and mingle
  with everyone present at any social 
gathering. You are proud of your
  possessions and even enjoy showing 
off your family’s talents and
  accomplishments.
You should train your artistic   talents so that you can share your aesthetic
sense and appreciation of beauty with   others. Many famous individuals in
the arts worked under this vibration,   expressing fully their deep and abiding
love for others through their work.
  7 AS THE PATH OF DESTINY: 
Your depth of character and
  seriousness destine you to be a 
teacher of ethics. You psychically
  separate the true from the false and 
can discover and reveal some of the
  mysteries of life to a waiting world. 
You should become the thinker, the
  philosopher, the scientist, the mystic 
or the religious zealot whose destiny is
  the mind. Some may see you as strange 
and hard to understand, but they
  will follow your teachings and seek 
your counsel when they are troubled.
  Your example and public image could 
benefit a whole community and
  eventually the world.
You find strength in solitude,   wisdom in moments of silence, and strength
in your own knowledge. In ancient days,   those born under 7 were placed in
the temple to become priests or priestesses   because all were aware of their
mental powers. Develop your   mental powers; the world will benefit.
8 AS THE PATH OF DESTINY: You have magnificent
  courage and stamina, and you will 
attain your goals through your own
  efforts. Recognition, success and 
wealth are your proper destiny.
  Perseverance in your career and long 
hours of intensive work backed up by
  ambition are what carry you to the 
top executive position in your chosen
  field. No lesser position would be 
acceptable to you. You need, however, to
  couple your material forces with the 
spiritual, and to attain mastery over
  yourself before you can attain and hold 
the position you visualize for your
  life’s work.
Some people with this number   vibration use their tremendous strength
and endurance in the sports field and   become outstanding athletes, thereby
expressing their determination to be at   the top in sports rather than in the
business world. However, many famous   athletes end up in business when
their sports careers have ended.
  9 AS THE PATH OF DESTINY: 
Perfection is your goal, but
  it is rarely attained on this plane. 
Your mission is a charitable one. You
  may meet many tests and setbacks, but 
the lesson of forgiveness will bring
  temperance to those situations. The 
higher you evolve, the more tests you
  are apt to meet, so guard against losing 
balance. You strive to live an ideal
  life and hope to inspire others to do 
the same. You desire to better the world
  through philosophy and philanthropy 
and become impatient when results
  come slowly. You need to realize that 
evolution occurs only in long cycles
  of time.
You will meet many   famous people in your lifetime who will be
impressed by the breadth of your thinking.   You should learn not to cling to
old associations. When you have   fulfilled your role with an individual, you
must move on. You cannot be limited to a small   circle of friends. Your
broad philosophy must   touch and enlighten the lives of many.
11 AS THE PATH OF DESTINY: Your gift of prophecy
  places you in the position where 
selfless service to humanity can be
  expressed, a difficult goal to live up 
to at best. You could work as a leader
  in public or civic affairs in your 
community and promote better standards of
  living for the more unfortunate. Your 
career drive could express itself
  through acting on stage or screen, or 
as a dynamic preacher or teacher. Your
  own standard of deportment 
should be above the average.
  You should achieve fame or recognition 
in some way, and since this
  vibration bestows great creative potential, 
the arts or inventive professions
  are your most likely choices. You have 
the ability to tap the creative source
  and imbue your work with an inspirational 
touch that will affect the souls of
  those who come into contact with 
whatever you create. You are truly
  inspired.
22 AS THE PATH OF DESTINY: You have confidence in
  your ability to lead and therefore 
naturally assume great responsibility. This
  fulfills your urge for important 
accomplishments. Once you have assumed
  your position of great power and wealth, 
you will want to participate in new
  mass movements in important civic 
and community projects. You are the
  super materialist whose influence can 
be world-wide. You are a creator on
  the material plane; you build in a 
large way. Bridges, hospitals, museums
  and other such structures are the 
visible products you leave to the world,
  products that serve to aid and enlighten 
mankind. Your influence is so 
  far reaching that you must guard against 
unethical motives because you will
  ultimately affect many lives. Serve 
well and you will be rewarded in direct
  proportion.
  33 AS THE PATH OF DESTINY: Your 
mission is self-sacrifice 
  and service to others. You often 
undergo crucifixion in your
  emotions and suffer for the woes of the 
world. Your actions are tempered by
  compassion through your understanding 
of right and justice. You often find
  that you must live impersonally with 
a detached but caring attitude, and
  realize that the way in which you handle 
the burdens placed on you will be
  a supreme example for others. Others 
sense your understanding nature and
  are naturally drawn to you for comfort 
and solace. By answering their
  needs, you find the fulfillment this 
number demands of you. If you are not
  living up to the master number 33, 
you can live it as a 6. You may then
  develop a martyr complex and get little 
appreciation for your sacrifices.
  44 AS THE PATH OF DESTINY 
NUMBER: This master number
  vibration demands great discipline and 
perseverance and the ability to make
  the best of any given situation. You 
are very resourceful, drawing upon your
  great wells of common sense and logic 
to solve any problems that arise.
  Your destiny is to serve the material 
needs of the world through productive
  and sound techniques. Edgar Cayce, 
a 44, solved the health problems of
  thousands. He served their material 
needs. You must gain complete mastery
  over your mind and body while here 
on earth. Your desire should be that
  others may share in universal 
prosperity and you should set about to
  construct situations in which this is 
possible. You seek to better the world in
  a physical way.
The Significance   of the 1st Vowel in the First Name.
The ancients considered vowels the   sacred elements in the alphabet. They
thought that the first vowel was the   vibration upon which the soul entered
the body. It has been found that the first   vowel does indeed have a profound
influence upon the individual,   and that, if one has an abundance of that
same first vowel throughout the entire name,   the quality of that vowel is
enhanced.
  There are 3 things to look for when 
reading the first vowel in your
  name: 1. the meaning of the vowel 
itself; 2. how many of that same vowel
  there are in the entire name; and 3. 
what, if anything, precedes that vowel.
  If there are more than 3 of the first 
vowel in the whole name, it means
  that there is too much of that particular 
characteristic, and the person may
  be overbalanced in the 
direction of that attribute.
  The following delineation of the vowels 
is very general and is meant only
  as a guide to aid in assessing the 
individuality of the person under
  consideration within the context of 
the total numerological analysis.
  A AS THE FIRST VOWEL in the 
first name: You are bold,
  independent, inquisitive and 
interested in research. You know what
  you want and why you want it. If A is 
the first vowel and there are 2 A’s
  in the entire name, you are a clear 
thinker. If A is the first vowel and there
  are more than 3 A’s, you can be 
egotistical, cynical and even critical.
  E AS THE FIRST VOWEL: You have 
an eventful, exciting life. 
  You are versatile and have the 
ability to learn easily, but
  may be nervous and temperamental. If 
E is the first vowel and there are
  more than 3 E’s in the name, 
you may have a fickle nature.
  I AS THE FIRST VOWEL: You are intuitive and
  interested in the arts, drama and/or 
science. If I is the first vowel and
  there are more than 3 I’s in the 
name, you are sensitive, shy and too
  emotional.
O AS THE FIRST VOWEL   in the first name: You are frank,
methodical and believe in law,   system and order. If O is the first
vowel and there are more than 3 O’s in the name,   you can be obstinate,
slow and monotonous.
  U AS THE FIRST VOWEL in the 
first name: You have a universal
  mind capable of great ideas and 
a broad viewpoint. You love to
  accumulate material things. 
Symbolically, the U is a cup that holds,
  therefore you may become a collector. 
If U is the first vowel and there are
  more than 3 U’s you may experience 
loss and selfishness because the
  cup spills over and the contents are 
lost. When W is the first vowel in the
  first name, it vibrates like a double U.
Y AS THE FIRST VOWEL in the first name:   It has the same
significance as E or I,   according to the sound produced. To
determine when Y is used as a vowel,   consider the pronunciation. In the
name May or Wayne, Y is not a vowel   but if Y has a separate sound, as in
the name Floyd, it is counted as a   double vowel diphthong since the sound of
the Y is distinguishable in the pronunciation.   In a name such as Lynn or
Wynn, where the Y is the only   vowel sound, it is counted as a vowel. In the
names Yvonne or Yvette, Y as the first vowel   has the sound of E. Also, in a
name such as Mary or Harry,   Y is a vowel because it sounds like E.
One last note on the vowel or consonant   Y. Its two-pronged structure
could symbolically indicate its double   usage in the alphabet. As a vowel
sound, Y could become the   27th letter in the alphabet to
complete the 9th vibration presently missing.
  (I equals 9; R equals 18 or 9; Y equals 27 or 9).
Pythagoras considered Y such a high mystical   letter that at one time he took
the name of Yarancharya to   experience its vibration first hand.
If the name contains 2 vowels together,   as in the name Faith, then read
the qualities of both vowels. For   example, Faith indicates a person who is
independent, interested in research (A),   and also very intuitive, a lover of
music and the arts (I).
  We do not count the vowels in 
the name beyond the 1st vowel
  combination unless there are identical 
adjoining vowels later in the name.
  In the name "Faith May Winter", we 
consider AI as the first vowel. Because
  the AI combination appears nowhere else 
in the name, the first AI stands as
  the only one of that vowel. The A in 
May and the I in Winter are considered
  separately. Conversely, should the 
name be Faith Daisy Waite, we would
  have 3 AI vowels to consider. The 
following is a list of diphthongs and
  double vowels in sample names.
Triple vowels, such as in the name   Louise, would also combine the
qualities of the 3 vowels.
  Other meanings of the vowels will be 
found in the list of the ABC’s in
  Chapter 5, which gives the meanings 
of the individual letters of the
  alphabet.
Your Personal Year.
  We live our lives in 9 year cycles, 
incorporating the universal principles
  of the numbers 1 thru 9. When we 
finish the 9th cycle, we begin again
  with 1 and proceed again through the 
9 numbers. This cycle occurs over
  and over throughout our lifetime. 
Look back 9 years from this moment,
  and you will find that you are 
experiencing not the exact events but a
  similar type vibration. For instance, 
9 years ago you might have been
  saving money to build a home; now 
you may be saving to send a child to
  college. The event is different, but 
the underlying theme is the same:
  budgeting money. If you know what to 
expect in any given cycle, you can
  live in tune with your particular 
vibration, and make your life easier,
  happier and more productive.
To find your present personal year,   simply add the month and day of
your birth to the year of your last   birthday. For example: November 12,
1940 is the birthdate of Ada Wynn   Lunt. To determine Ada’s present
vibration, we will add the date.   11 + 12 + 1975. (1975 was the year of her last
birthday as of this book's writing.) Remember,   we do not use the year of
birth, but rather the year of   the last birthday. If you were born on February
29, use February 29 regardless of whether the   year in question had a
February 29th or not.
  Ada, in 1975, is in a 45 or 9 personal 
year. The personal year runs from the
  birthday of one year to the birthday 
of the next year, not from January to
  December as the general calendar runs. 
Therefore, Ada will be in a 45 or 9
  personal year from November 12, 1975 
to November 12, 1976, even though
  most of her personal year, 1975, 
runs into the calendar year 1976.
  Ada would then turn to Part 2 and 
read number 9 under the section
  entitled 9 as a Temporary Vibration. 
She would then read 45 or 9 as a
  Temporary Vibration, which is a finer 
description of the underlying 9
  Temporary Vibration. Note that we are 
not reading the number as a Personal
  Vibration. The numerical meanings of 
a Personal Number and a Temporary
  Vibration are the same; however, 
you must put them in their proper
  perspectives. If a number is your 
Personal Number, it is with you for a
  lifetime. If it is a Temporary Vibration, 
you experience it for a short time.
  So, from her November 12, 1975 
birthday to her November 12, 1976
  birthday Ada will be temporarily 
experiencing a 45 or 9 vibration.
  You can follow the same procedure for 
any given year of your life to find
  out what happened or what is going to 
happen. Merely choose the time you
  are investigating, for instance, the 
summer of 1946, or the fall of 1987, and
  from there determine the year of your 
last birthday at that time. Then add
  that year to your month and day of 
birth to find your personal year
  vibration.
Period Numbers.
  We can divide the personal year into 
3 equal blocks of time to determine
  what is happening in each 4 month 
period of the year. We do this in the
  following manner.
Place the personal year calculations in the   first column. At the head of the
2nd column write the month of the   birthday and the 4th month
following; in our example,   November to March. In the next column, place
the following 4 months: March to July,   and in the last column place
the remaining 4 months, July to November.
  If the birth month were June, you 
would place June to October at the
  head of the 2nd column, October 
to February in the 3rd column and
  February to June in the 4th column. 
This simply divides the year into
  3 four-month blocks beginning 
with the month of your birth.
  To find the experience of Ada’s 1st 
four-month block in 1975, add her
  age to the year 1975. She was 35 
on November 12, 1975, so we will
  add 1975 and 35 to get 2010. We 
will then reduce 2010 by adding 
  2 + 0 + 1 + 0 to get 3. She 
will be under a 3 vibration 
  from November 1975 to March 
1976 of her personal year 45/9.
  In the 2nd block, covering March to 
July, we add the double digit of
  her Life Lesson Number 37 to the year 
1975. 1975 + 37 is 2012, or 2 + 0 +
  1 + 2 is 5. From March to July she 
will be operating under a 5 vibration.
  In the. 4th column under July to 
November, we will add the double
  digit of her Soul Number to the year 
1975, or 1975 + 12 to get 1987. 
  1 + 9 + 8 + 7 is 25 or 7 vibration.
Always add the unreduced double   digit of the Life Lesson Number to the
3rd column and the unreduced double digit   of the Soul Number to the
4th column.
  The delineations for these numbers 
are in Part 2 of this book under the
  Temporary Vibrations section 
of each individual number.
  Use the same procedure for any 
year. Why not figure your past 
  personal year and period numbers 
to determine for yourself 
  the accuracy of this method?
Personal Month.
  It is even possible to find the personal 
month vibration which reveals the
  underlying trend of each month of 
the personal year. Simply add the
  number of the month in question 
(January is 1, February is 2, through
  December which is 12) to the 
double digit personal year number.
  Ada, in 1975, is in a 45 or 9 personal 
year. If we wish to find her vibration
  during the month of May, we add 5 for 
May (the 5th month of the year) to
  45 for her personal year and arrive at 
50 or 5 for her personal month. May will
  be a 50 or 5 personal month. Then read 
the delineations of number 5 and 50/5
  in Part 2 under Temporary Vibrations 
for a more thorough analysis of the
  energies Ada is working with during 
the month of May in the year 1975.
  Since her birthday is November 12th, 
we would continue to work with
  the 45 or 9 personal year until November. 
We would then add the value of the
  month of November, 11, or December, 
12, to the 46, rather than to the 45,
  because Ada entered a new 
personal year on her birthday.
  Ada is in a 6 period from March to 
July. This indicates a change in the
  home; Ada might possibly move during 
that period. We could then narrow it
  down to the month of May, because 
the base number 5 indicates change,
  movement and freedom.
These personal month vibrations   are minor and only help to locate the
more important events during the year.
  Keywords for period numbers and personal months
  1: new starts, action, 
originality, making decisions
  2: harmony, cooperation, mediation, passivity
3: scattering, freedom, entertainment,   self-expression
4: practicality,   work, order, building foundations
5: change, freedom, new intellectual   interests, travel
6: family, health,   service, listening to others’ problems
7: self-analysis, achievement, health problems
  8: business, power, responsibility, money
9: giving to others, endings, service
  11: limelight, inspiration, religion
22: materialism, large endeavors
  33: sacrifice, compassion for others
44: helping others resolve daily   problems, counseling
THREE: GOD GEOMETRIZES.
  THE SYMBOLOGY OF NUMBERS is 
universal; it contains eternal
  principles that cannot be 
modified by human will. Every
  manifestation is the product of the 
single digits 1 through 9. Geometry is
  the visual tool of the spirit world 
through which we can uncover any
  information needed to promote our 
understanding of ourselves and the
  world around us; in short, our evolution. 
All answers are there. An occult
  axiom states, “God geometrizes.” In 
this chapter, we attempt to explain
  what is meant by those 2 
simple yet enigmatic words.
  Through the authors’ research, logic, 
work, meditation and intuition, the
  following concepts have emerged. 
Many ideas presented here have been
  accepted for ages, some are relatively 
recent, and the remaining are totally
  new. They make sense to us, and, for this
reason, we present them to you.
  We can best begin by delineating 
the 4 basic shapes which form a
  numerical foundation for all numbers and shapes: 
The circle; the line;   the triangle; and the square.
The circle represents the Godhead,   all that was, is and ever shall be;
spirit, the I Am; love because it   encompasses, enfolds and contains;
balance, because however you turn it,   it maintains its shape; and justice,
because it is in a state of perfect   balance. A circle contains 360 degrees. 
3 + 6 + 0 is 9. 9 is the highest and final   digit in the series of
single digits;   when multiplied by another number, 
the result always reduces again to 9.
  (2 times 9 is 18 or 9; 3 times 9 is 27 
or 9; 4 times 9 is 36 or 9; and so on.) 
  A circle has no beginning and no 
end; it is infinite and endless. 
  The Lord said, “I am the Alpha and the Omega” 
(Revelations chapter 1, verse 11), the   beginning and the end.
The circle symbolizes eternity   and the immortality of the soul. This is
seen through the laws of nature and   cyclicity. Planets revolve around the
sun in a circular pattern; nature repeats   itself in cycles; and, if we travel far
enough out into space, we arrive at the   same point from which we started
(so scientists claim). The God energy   is elliptical or round. It goes on and
on, never ending. The ancients said,   “God is a spherical intelligence whose
center is everywhere and whose   circumference is nowhere.” Behind the
altar in many churches hangs a symbol of   the cross surmounted on the God
symbol, a circle.
  The upright vertical line symbolically 
represents spirit descending into
  matter, or energy leaving the Godhead. 
It has masculine qualities; it is
  outgoing, dynamic, energetic, 
fiery, upright and commanding.
  Every energy has an opposing polarity, 
and the horizontal line is such a
  symbol in relation to the vertical line. 
It represents the soul energy, the
  feminine, the receptive and absorptive 
qualities of mother earth. This line is
  an ancient symbol for matter 
and the material world.
  The triangle is the 1st closed form 
that can be made with single lines. It
  represents the Trinity, Father-Son-Holy Ghost, 
father-mother-God, father-mother-child,   spirit-soul-mind, 
super-conscious, subconscious, conscious.
  In the 2 interlaced triangles, the 
Philosopher’s Diamond or the Star of
  David, geometry captures the axiom, 
“As above, so below.” We are made in
  the image of God. The upper triangle 
of the Philosopher’s Diamond is the
  father-mother-god which is reflected 
in the lower inverted triangle, 
  father-mother-child. The upper triangle 
is the world of spirit, and the lower
  triangle is the world of matter. The 
Godhead from above is reflected in the
  material world below; therefore, 
what we see in the material world is
  merely a reflection of the truth. It is 
as if we are gazing into the depths of a
  cool forest pool, thinking the images 
we see are the only truth, although
  these images may be distorted by the 
wind rippling the surface of the water.
  We in the material body are merely 
observers of the shadows cast upon the
  walls of Plato’s cave. We live in a 
world of illusion and view things upside
  down.
Geometry validates   the theory that we see only half the truth. The
following are mathematical truths: the sum of   the angles of a triangle is 180 
degrees; the sum of the angles   of a square is 360 degrees; 
and a circle contains 360 degrees.
  By lowering the downward-pointing 
triangle of the Philosopher’s
  Diamond a bit, we have the illustration 
in the margin. Each of these
  triangles has only 180 degrees, 
or half the degrees of a circle
  or square (360 degrees). 
As we have shown, a circle
  contains all truth and wisdom; it is the 
Godhead. But in the triangle we have
  only half the truth. By adding these 
2 triangles together, or 180 + 180, 
  we arrive at 360 degrees, or all the truth. 
Symbolically situated in the lower   inverted triangle, we must
look to the spirit in the upper   triangle to find all the truth, else we remain in
a shadow land where the ill winds ripple our   images and distort our vision
of the truth.
  If the 2 triangles are turned to the 
side, they form a parallelogram of
  4 sides, or a modified square.
The square is the 2nd perfect   shape that can be drawn with single
lines; it is symbolic of the earth.   The 4 appears in a number of ways: the
4 points on the compass; the 4 elements   of fire, earth, air and water;
the 4 points of the cross; the 40   days (an elevated 4), spent by Christ in
the desert fighting earthly temptations;   and salt crystallizing in cubes, a
solidified 4. Finally, as the salt of   the earth, we are all examples of the
number 4. These are a few of the many   references relating 4 to earth.
The 4 sides of the square represent   the 4 parts of the individual—
with the physical body added to   the triangle of mind, soul and spirit. Now,
spirit has a soul, a mind and a body in which   to work in the material world.
By joining the 2 triangles of the   Philosopher’s Diamond shown above,
we arrive at the parallelogram,   which like the circle, contains 
360 degrees or all truths. This   shows that complete attainment and
fulfillment are possible here on earth   in the physical body because the circle
and the square both contain 360 degrees.
  Always remember, however, that spirit 
is contained within the body, just
  as the triangle preceded the square 
and is contained within it. Our body
  belongs to the earth, but our soul 
belongs to the spirit. Spirit is immortal
  because, as we have shown, the triangle 
existed before and independently of
  the square. But the square is totally 
dependent upon the triangle because the
  square is built upon it, following it 
in the natural order of things. Spirit
  cannot operate in the physical world 
without a material body, but it can
  operate in other worlds and dimensions. 
The material body contains and
  must reflect the Godhead for completion 
and fulfillment in the material
  world. “As above, so below.”
Further examination of the   Philosopher’s Diamond reveals deeper truths.
Esoteric tradition teaches that the upper   triangle is fire, and the lower
triangle is water. We link fire to the   spirit with such expressions as the
living flame, the eternal flame;   and the Bible speaks of the burning
bush and the fiery fingers that etched   the 10 Commandments on Moses’
tablets.
  Symbolically, water and the emotions 
are synonymous. We weep tears
  when we are emotional, happy or 
sad. Our common expressions equate
  water with the emotions in such phrases 
as rough sailing, stormy seas, 
  "waves of feeling engulfed him" and so 
on. The major portion of our planet
  is water, known to be controlled by 
the moon, which also affects the
  stability of the human emotions.
Spirit is linked to the mind,   the head area, where the pineal and pituitary
glands, the father and mother centers,   are located. The watery emotions are
centered in the heart. We are told that   “the lion shall lie down with the
lamb.” What we are being promised   is that Leo the lion, ruler of the heart,
shall lie with the lamb, or Aries the ram,   ruler of the head. We shall have
peace when the head and the heart   are brought into perfect balance, when
we think with our hearts and feel with our heads.
  The preceding analysis of geometrical 
forms has been preparation for the
  delineation of the Divine Triangle, 
the basis of which is the Pythagorean
  Theorem. The explanation of this 
blueprint can describe the magnitude or
  destiny of our lives.
The blueprint is formed   by the triangle of 3 parts of mind 
(mind-soul-spirit) added to the square   of the physical body and matter.
As you can see from the blueprint,   the cross is also part of the Divine
Triangle. Spirit descends into matter as   shown in the illustration in the
margin.
  We as human beings are stationed at 
the comer point where the 2 lines
  of the cross meet. At this point we are 
the recipients of the cosmic energy;
  therefore, these points represent 
an aspect of consciousness.
  The soul enters the body at point A 
and immediately begins its journey
  along the path which for the first 9 
years will cover line AB. It then turns
  the corner at B and continues from 
B to C between the ages of 9 and
  18. Upon reaching 18, it then 
turns and travels line CD for 9
  years, until age 27. The first 
square ABDC has been formed.
  In this period of time, from 
age zero to 27, the mind and
  character are formed. Psychology and 
medicine bear this out. Plato said that
  one gains one’s soul at age 28, and 
astrologers will note that this
  closely corresponds to the first 
complete Saturn return which, at
  approximately age 29, has made 
1 circuit on the natal chart,
  touching every planet, lending structure 
and form and crystallizing the
  energies emitted by each planet. As you 
can see, the soul, at point D, for the
  first time since entering the physical 
body, touches the fire of spirit.
  Therefore, between the ages 
of 27 and 29, we are in a
  precarious position; this is the 1st time 
the soul comes into contact with the
  fire of spirit, whose awareness 
it lost when it entered the body.
  Depending on the past use of our personal 
energies, it is at this age that
  we can be burned by the fire of 
destruction, or transmuted by   the fire of
spirit. 
  This can be a painful, burning 
experience for those who are bound to
  the past and past conditionings, who 
cannot let go of those habits, opinions
  and beliefs that can restrict and encase 
them in the past. But, for those who
  use the experiences and learning of the 
past as a firm structure upon which
  to build the future, it is then that 
they are touched by the fiery flame of
  spirit, which reaches into their lives 
and inspires them to follow their true
  path of destiny. By observing the 
experiences in people’s lives between the
  ages of 27 and 29 we learn 
a great deal about how the
  fire can bum and destroy, 
or rekindle and transmute.
  We have established that the youth 
square of the Divine Triangle
  encompasses that period of time in 
which the process of building a sound
  mental structure is accomplished.
In Pythagoras’s original theorem,   the sides of the right triangle measured
3, 4 and 5 units of length.
  In figure 1, you can see that the youth 
square is built upon the side with
  the value of 3, which has an astrological 
correspondence to the planet
  Jupiter. With Jupiter as the foundation 
of the first 27 years of life,
  the principles of mental and spiritual 
expansion are at work. The youth
  square is the cornerstone, the mind, 
upon which the temple, the body, is
  built. Solomon, a wise numerologist, 
spoke of this cornerstone as the block
  upon which the power square, 
ages 27 to 54, will be placed.
  The power square has as its foundation 
line the horizontal side of the
  right triangle, with a value of 4, a 
number related to the earth. This implies
  that between the ages of 27 
and 54 our life is spent
  dealing with the material plane and 
all that it encompasses. Certainly we
  can agree that most of us spend that 
portion of our lives using whatever
  power we have in striving for material 
gains and comforts in the form of job
  positions, salaries, housing and personal 
possessions; each is an aspect of
  the material plane. It is right and fitting 
that we should do this. We chose to
  incarnate in a material body to learn the 
lessons of the earth plane, and it is
  here in the power square that we are 
most intimately in touch with this
  particular learning process.
You will note, however, that this   square is a result of the square of the
mind. The earth plane is the base line   of this square, but the mind is the
overseer, and indeed it is through the   mind that we create our environment.
It is here in this time span between   the ages of 27 and 54 
that we are free of the   psychological restrictions and childhood
conditionings of the youth square,   free to make decisions about which way
we want our lives to go. These decisions   rest exclusively with the mind of
the individual.
  The Bible says “As a man thinketh, 
so he is.” We cannot deny the
  profound effect that a positive attitude 
has upon the direction of our lives.
  Look around you. What you see is the 
result of the way you think. It has
  nothing to do with anyone else; it is 
yours and yours alone. If you are happy
  with your situation, then your mind is 
in order and well balanced. If you are
  not happy, then you and you alone 
have the power to change your present
  environment and relationships by making 
the decision that yes, you are a
  worthy person; and yes, you deserve 
to have all the material comforts you
  want; and yes, you should be loved and 
respected. Because it is only when
  you make the decision that you deserve 
and will have these things, that they
  will begin to come to you. Romans 12 
verse 2 says: “Be ye transformed by the
  renewing of your mind.”
At age 54 the 2nd building   block has been completed, and the
individual has established a body   and a mind. We are known by the way we
look, and by the way we think. Notice,   however, that at age 54 we
are experiencing the same transitional   phenomenon we did at age 27. 
This point roughly corresponds   to the 2nd complete Saturn return,
and brings with it the same choices and   results we confronted between the
ages of 27 and 29.
  Here again at 54, for the 2nd 
time in our life, we come into
  direct contact with the center triangle 
of spirit, our own true inner self. Will
  the inner self express approval of our 
past efforts and reward us with the
  fruits of our labor? Or will the inner 
self instead hand us dried dead fruits,
  scorched by the burning fire of 
destruction? Whatever we reap, rest assured
  we have sown. The universal law of 
balance brings only justice. The law of
  physics that for every action there 
is an equal and opposite reaction has
  precedence here. It is swift and sure 
and without emotion, pure justice in
  action, but it is the result of our own 
past actions. We are always in control.
  If we have not sown wisely in the past, 
it is at this point that we can easily
  make the decision to change our 
direction. The future is ours to create.
  The wisdom square, which is the 
structure of the soul, is built upon the
  line assigned the value 5, astrologically 
a Mercury number. The ages 54 to 81, 
  which the wisdom square 
encompasses, is thus a period
  in life given to much introspection. We 
reflect upon the past, its failures and
  accomplishments; the present, at what 
station in life we find ourselves; and
  the future, such issues as death 
and the immortality of the soul.
  In mythology, Mercury was the messenger 
of the deities, the connecting
  communication link between the gods 
of heaven and the mortals on earth.
  Symbolically, this fleet-footed 
messenger is the mind, the connection
  between soul and body, which, in 
the period of life between 54 and
  81, must now turn from the material 
world and build the bridge
  between the physical world and the 
world of Spirit. This is accomplished
  through reflection, reason, order, 
logic and understanding; all mercurial
  qualities. This bridge between the 
physical and spiritual will be achieved
  through a synthesis of the results 
of the previous processes.
  In the youth square, mind was formed 
and conditioned and expanded; in
  the power square, mind had to operate 
in the world of form on its own, as a
  single independent entity. Now, in 
the wisdom square, the mind must
  analyze the results of the soul’s 
evolution through the various stages up to
  this point and begin to assimilate 
these findings into the soul’s growth
  experience up to the time the 
transition process of death occurs.
  For those of us who live through this 
square and reach the magic age of
  81, there is a three-pronged fork 
at which we must choose a future
  path.
We may decide to leave   the body, at which point we will die and follow
the ascending arrow out of the blueprint back to   the source from which we
came.
  Or we may decide to stay in the body, 
which implies that we will proceed
  in one of 2 directions, depending on 
the type of seeds we have sown in
  the past. Life past 81 is decidedly 
karmic. If we have wasted our
  life energies and left naught but 
destruction and unhappiness in our wake,
  we may very well take the path we 
originally trod at birth, that first
  horizontal line on the youth square, 
ages zero to 9. Because the line
  encompasses childhood we too will 
become childlike (senile) and need to
  be cared for like an infant.
The 3rd path is for those who   have sown wisely, who have used the
precious God-given life energies   and have honored the body temple in
service to the material world through   understanding, compassion and love
towards others. On this sacred path,   the few are revered and honored
because their very presence blesses   those near. Their touch is healing, and
their words express the music of the   spheres, inspiring and lifting the weary
heart. Blessed are those who tread this path,   for theirs is the destiny of
supreme devotion to life.
  Chapter 4 instructs you in how to 
place your birth name and birth date
  on the Divine Triangle to work 
with your personal life blueprint.
  FOUR: THE DIVINE TRIANGLE.
IN THIS CHAPTER, we will explain   how to place your birth name and
birth date on the Divine Triangle   and discover the events which you will
experience in this lifetime. The Life   Theorem of Pythagoras is the basis of
the Divine Triangle, and as you can see   from the blueprint shown earlier, his
right triangle is the foundation upon   which each of the squares is built.
The information that is about to be   revealed to you is unique. To our
knowledge it has never been published   before. Very likely it was lost in the
great fire that destroyed the fabulous   library at Alexandria many centuries
ago. Priceless parchments containing the   wisdom of many masters were
lost.
  Faith’s teacher learned the method 
for using this blueprint from the
  master KH who, according to some 
sources, was formerly Pythagoras.
  Perhaps Pythagoras taught this method 
to his disciples. Regardless of one’s
  belief in such things, the blueprint does 
work; therefore, in our minds, it is
  valid. Try it for yourself and see.
Drawing the Blueprint.
  The blueprint is set up as follows. 
The right triangle of Pythagoras
  occupies the center. Squares are built 
on each side of the triangle. Each of
  the 3 lines drawn to complete the 
square represents 9 years of life.
  We begin on line AB at the point of 
entrance indicated by the arrow in
  figure 2. The lines represent 
the ages as follows:
  Line AB: Ages zero to 9
Line BC: Ages 9 to 18
  Line CD: Ages 18 to 27
Line DE: Ages 27 to 36
  Line EF: Ages 36 to 45
Line FG: Ages 45 to 54
  Line GH: Ages 54 to 63
Line HI: Ages 63 to 72
  Line IA: Ages 72 to 81
On the figure 2 blueprint, we see   that the youth square covers the ages from 
birth to 27. The power square covers   the ages 27 to 54. 
The wisdom square covers   ages 54 through 81. After age 81, 
we begin again on the youth square,   but this time on a higher vibration.
Become thoroughly acquainted with   the blueprint before proceeding. If
you familiarize yourself with it now,   the following process will be much
easier to understand.
  Labeling the Blueprint.
The Birth date: 
  Using our example, Ada Wynn Lunt, 
we will place her birth date, 
  November 12, 1940, on the triangle 
in the center of the blueprint.
  The birth month 11 goes on the vertical 
line AD; the birthdate on the 
  horizontal line DG; and the birth 
year 1940 on the hypotenuse AG.
  We reduce the double digits. Here 
the number 11 becomes 2, the number
  12 becomes 3, and the year 1940 reduces 
to 14 and then 5. If the birth month
  and birth date were single digits, such 
as May 4, you would simply place 5
  for May on line AD and 4 for the day on line DG.
The Name: 
  The value of the letters in your 
name is placed on the lines of
  the squares. Place the letter 
and its value on each line.
  In our example, Ada Wynn Lunt, the 
letter of the first name, A, and its
  value, 1, is placed on line 
AB of the youth square.
  Place the 2nd letter, D, and 
its value, 4, on line BC.
  Place the 3rd letter of the name, 
A, and its value, 1, on line CD.
  This completes the youth square, which 
represents the ages from birth to
  When you come to the end of your 1st 
name, place an X on that corner,
  for it marks an important time in your 
development. Changes will occur, or
  a definite event will change your 
outlook in some way. We place an X at
  point D because we have completed Ada’s 1st name.
Continue with the power square. Place   the next letter of the name, in this
case W, and its value, 23 or 5, on line DE.
  Put the following letter, Y, and 
its value, 25 or 7, on line EF.
  Put the next letter, N, and its 
value, 14 or 5, on line FG.
  This completes the power square, 
which represents the ages 27 to 54.
  On the wisdom square, place the next 
letter of the name, N, and its value,
  14 or 5, on line GH. At this point we 
place another X, because this marks the
  end of the middle name.
The last name is never used on   the blueprint, because it is a family
vibration and not uniquely your   own. Therefore, when you run out of
letters, you begin the first name over   again. So, in our example, we begin
again with the first name.
  Figure 3: Blueprint for Ada Wynn 
Lunt, born November 12, 1940.
  Place the 1st letter of the first 
name, A, and its value, 1, on line HI.
  Place the 2nd letter of the first 
name, D, and its value, 4, on the
  remaining line, IA.
This completes the wisdom   square which represents ages 54 to 81.
If you or the subject is older than 81,   begin again on the new square.
The Totals.
  Now that we have placed the name 
and birth date on the blueprint, 
  we add the 4 sides of each square 
for a total which is placed in
  the center of the square. Always add 
the higher, unreduced digit in this
  process.
In the youth square, we add   1 + 4 + 1 + 11 for a total of 17 or 8. Place the
number 17 or 8 in the center of the youth square.
  In the power square, add 23 + 25 + 14 
+ 12 and place the total, 74 or 11, in
  the center of the square. 74 or 11 is 
a master number and is not reduced
  further.
In the wisdom square,   add 14 + 1 + 4 + 14 for a total of 33 which is
placed in the center of the square. 33 is a master   number and is not reduced
further.
  Now add the 3 sides of the triangle 
for a fourth total which is placed
  in the center of the triangle. Always 
add the higher digits. 11 + 12 + 14 is
  37 or 1. Place 37 or 1 in the center 
of the triangle. Notice that 37 or 1 
  is the Life Lesson Number. The number 
in the center of the triangle 
  is always the Life Lesson Number.
  Figure 3 shows how the blueprint will 
look when the totals are written in.
  The number in the center of the youth 
square is an umbrella vibration that
  covers the period of life from 
birth to age 27; the number in the
  center of the power square is the 
fundamental vibration that covers the ages
  from 27 to 54; and the number 
in the center of the wisdom
  square is the fundamental vibration 
influencing the years from 54 to
  81. To find out what each vibration 
has to offer for that period in
  your life, turn to Part 2 of this 
book and read the Temporary Vibration
  delineation for that number.
Here is one more example.
  65 or 11 is a master number and is not 
reduced further. As explained in the
  introduction, we do not use numbers 
that exceed 78; so we reduce 99 to
  18 or 9.
The Figure 4 Blueprint for   Mary Geraldine Charles is pictured here.
Determining the Line Experiences.
  We know there are 9 single digits, 
and every double digit reduces to a
  single one. Consequently, there are 
only 9 phases through which you can
  pass in life. Each phase lasts 9 
years; therefore, it takes 81 years
  to complete the 9 phases.
Each of the 9 lines outside   the triangle represents 9 years of life;
therefore, the number on any given line   will influence that 9 year period.
For example, Ada Wynn Lunt has a 4 on   line BC, which covers the ages
9 to 18; she will be under the   4 vibration during those years.
Each line of the blueprint reveals   8 experiences. Two different
methods are used to compute the   types of experience to be faced. The 1st
method, which is traditionally called the   major process yields 6 types of
experience and covers 27 years,   giving a wide perspective. The
2nd method, or minor process,   yields 2 types of experiences and
focuses on a 9 year period to give   a more specific delineation. The
words major and minor refer only   to the lengths of the time spans
involved. The experiences revealed   by the minor process may be just as
important as the ones revealed by   the major process. However, the minor
experiences may have a more current effect,   whereas the major experiences
have more of a long range effect.
  By the time you reach 81 years 
of age, you will have traveled
  over 9 lines in the blueprint 
and have had 72 experiences. Let
  us now examine the methods used to 
arrive at these experiences and the
  ages at which they will occur. The 
descriptions for these experiences can be
  found in Part 2 under the Temporary 
Vibration delineations for the
  numbers.
The Major Process.
  As we go around the triangle for the 
experiences revealed by the major
  process, we will be using 3 sets 
of numbers, one set in each step:
  Step 1: the numbers in the center of the square.
Step 2: the numbers on the side of the triangle.
  Step 3: the numbers in the 
center of the triangle.
  These numbers will be added to or 
subtracted from the ages on each end
  of the line we are working on.
We always use a single digit to add   or subtract from the ages on the line.
If you have a master number, reduce it   to its base number. For example,
master number 33 would become a 6.
  To illustrate, we will use the 
figure 3 blueprint of our example, 
  Ada Wynn Lunt to ascertain what 
sort of experiences she might have 
  at various times in her life.
Line AB: Use 0 and 9,   the ages at each end of the line AB.
Step 1: Use the numbers in the center   of the square, 17 or 8. To age 0, add
the single digit; from age 9 subtract the   single digit. 0 + 8 is 8. 9 minus 8 is 1. At 
ages 1 and 8 there was a 17 or 8 experience.
  Step 2: Use the numbers on the side of 
the triangle, 11 or 2. To age 0, add
  the single digit; from age 9 
subtract the single digit. 
  0 + 2 is 2. 9 minus 2 is 7. At ages 2 
and 7 there was an 11 or 2 experience.
  Step 3: Use the numbers in the center 
of the triangle, 37 or 1. To age 0, add
  the single digit; from age 9 subtract 
the single digit. 0 + 1 is 1. 
  9 minus 1 is 8. At ages 1 and 8 
there was a 37 or 1 experience.
  Line BC: Use 9 and 18, the 
ages at each end of the line.
  Step 1: Use the numbers in the center 
of the square, 17 or 8. To age 9, add
  the single digit; from age 18 subtract the single 
digit. 9 + 8 is 17. 18 minus 8 is 10. At age 10   and 17 there was a 17 or 8 experience.
Step 2: Use the numbers on the   side of the triangle. To age 9, add
the single digit; from age 18 subtract the   single digit. 9 + 2 is 11. 18 minus 2 is 16. At 
ages 11 and 16 there was an 11 or 2 experience.
  Step 3: Use the numbers in the center 
of the triangle, 37. To age 9 add
  the single digit; from age 18 subtract the 
single digit. 9 + 1 is 10. 18 minus 1 is 17.   At ages 10 and 17 there was a 37 or 1 experience.
Line CD: Use 18 and 27,   the ages at each end of the line.
Step 1: Use the numbers in the center   of the square, 17 or 8. To age 18 add
the single digit; from age 27 subtract the   single digit. 18 + 8 is 26. 27 minus 8 is 19. At 
ages 19 and 26, there was a 17 or 8 experience.
  Step 2: Use the numbers on the side of 
the triangle, 11 or 2. To age 18 add
  the single digit; from age 27 subtract the single 
digit. 18 + 2 is 20. 27 minus 2 is 25. At ages 20   and 25 there was an 11 or 2 experience.
Step 3: Use the numbers in the center   of the triangle, 37 or 1. To age 18 add
the single digit; from age 27 subtract the   single digit. 18 + 1 is 19. 27 minus 1 is 26. At 
ages 19 and 26, there was a 37 or 1 experience.
  The table on the next page summarizes 
the information we derived from
  Ada Wynn Lunt’s youth square.
Now let us see what we can   find out about Ada Wynn Lunt’s power
years, 27 to 54, by looking at her power square.
  Line DE: Use 27 and 36, the 
ages at each end of the line.
  Step 1: Use the numbers in the center 
of the square, 74 or 11. To age 27 add
  the single digit; from age 36 
subtract the single digit. Since we
  always use a single digit to compute 
the line experience, we reduce the
  master number 11 to its base number 2. 
27 + 2 is 29. 36 minus 2 is 34. At ages
  29 and 34 there was a 74 or 11 experience.
Step 2: Use the numbers on the side of   the triangle, 12 or 3. To age 27 add
the single digit; from age 36 subtract   the single digit. 27 + 3 is 30. 36 minus 3 is 33. 
At ages 30 and 33 there was a 12 or 3 experience.
  Step 3: Use the numbers in the center 
of the triangle, 37 or 1. To age 27 add
  the single digit; from age 36 subtract the single 
digit. 27 + 1 is 28. 36 minus 1 is 35. At ages 28   and 35 there was a 37 or 1 experience.
Line EF: Use 36 and 45,   the ages at each end of the line.
Step 1: Use the numbers in the center   of the square, 74 or 11. To age 36 add
the single digit; from age 45 subtract   the single digit. Reduce master
number 11 to its base number 2. 36 + 2   is 38. 45 minus 2 is 43. At ages 38 and
43 there will be a 74 or 11 experience.
  Step 2: Use the numbers on the side of 
the triangle, 12 or 3. To age 36 add
  the single digit; from age 45 subtract the single 
digit. 36 + 3 is 39. 45 minus 3 is 42. At ages 39   and 42 there will be a 12 or 3 experience.
Step 3: Use the numbers in the center   of the triangle, 37 or 1. To age 36 add
the single digit; from age 45 subtract the single   digit. 36 + 1 is 37. 45 minus 1 is 44. At ages 
37 and 44 there will be a 37 or 1 experience.
  Line FG Use 45 and 54, the 
ages at each end of the line.
  Step 1: Use the numbers in the center 
of the square, 74 or 11. To age 45 add
  the single digit; from age 54 subtract 
the single digit. Reduce master
  number 11 to its base number 2. 45 + 2 
is 47. 54 minus 2 is 52. At ages 47 and
  52 there will be a 74 or 11 experience.
Step 2: Use the numbers on the side   of the triangle, 12 or 3. To age 45 add
the single digit; from age 54 subtract the single   digit. 45 + 3 is 48. 54 minus 3 is 51. At ages 
48 and 51 there will be a 12 or 3 experience.
  Step 3: Use the numbers in the center 
of the triangle, 37 or 1. To age 45 add
  the single digit; from age 54 subtract the single 
digit. 45 + 1 is 46. 54 minus 1 is 53. At ages 46   and 53 there will be a 37 or 1 experience.
The above table summarizes the information   we derived from Ada Wynn
Lunt’s power square. The two   righthand columns give the age at which each
experience will occur and the number that   represents the quality of each
experience. To find out what the   quality of each of those experiences will
be, she would look up each of those numbers   as Temporary Vibrations in
Part 2 of this book.   For example, at age 29, Ada will have a 74 or 11
experience. 74 or 11 as a Temporary Vibration   is delineated on page 250.
Now let us look at Ada Wynn   Lunt’s wisdom square and see what we can
find out about her life from ages 54 to 81.
  Line GH: Use 54 and 63, the 
ages at each end of the line.
  Step 1: Use the numbers in the center 
of the square, 33. To age 54 add the
  single digit 6 (33 reduced); from age 63 
subtract the single digit 6. 54 + 6 is
  60. 63 minus 6 is 57. At ages 57 and 
60 there will be a 33 experience.
  Step 2: Use the numbers on the side of 
the triangle, 14 or 5. To age 54 add
  the single digit; from age 63 subtract the single 
digit. 54 + 5 is 59. 63 minus 5 is 58. At ages 58   and 59 there will be a 14 or 5 experience.
Step 3: Use the numbers in the center   of the triangle, 37 or 1. To age 54 add
the single digit; from age 63 subtract the single   digit. 54 + 1 is 55. 63 minus 1 is 62. At ages 
55 and 62 there will be a 37 or 1 experience.
  Line HI: Use 63 and 72, the 
ages at each end of the line.
  Step 1: Use the number in the center 
of the square, 33. To age 63 add the
  single digit 6 (33 reduced); from age 72 
subtract the single digit 6. 63 + 6 is
  69. 72 minus 6 is 66. At ages 66 and 
69 there will be a 33 or 6 experience.
  Step 2: Use the numbers on the side of 
the triangle, 14 or 5. To age 63 add
  the single digit; from age 72 subtract the single 
digit. 63 + 5 is 68. 72 minus 5 is 67. At ages 67   and 68 there will be a 14 or 5 experience.
Step 3: Use the numbers in the center   of the triangle, 37 or l. To age 63 add
the single digit; from age 72 subtract the single   digit. 63 + 1 is 64. 72 minus 1 is 71. At ages 
64 and 71 there will be a 37 or 1 experience.
  Line IA: Use 72 and 81, the 
ages at each end of the line.
  Step 1: Use the numbers in the center 
of the square, 33. To age 72 add the
  single digit 6 (33 reduced); from age 
81 subtract the single digit. 72 + 6 is
  78. 81 minus 6 is 75. At ages 75 and 
78 there will be a 33 experience.
  Step 2: Use the numbers on the side of 
the triangle, 14 or 5. To age 72 add
  the single digit; from age 81 subtract the single 
digit. 72 + 5 is 77. 81 minus 5 is 76. At ages 76   and 77 there will be a 14 or 5 experience.
Step 3: Use the numbers in the center   of the triangle, 37 or 1. To age 72 add
the single digit; from age 81 subtract the single   digit. 72 + 1 is 73. 81 minus 1 is 80. At ages 
73 and 80 there will be a 37 or 1 experience.
  The following table summarizes the 
experiences of Ada’s wisdom years.
  This concludes our discussion of the 
experiences revealed by the major
  process. You may have noticed that 
Ada had more experiences at certain
  ages than at others, for example at ages 
one and eight. It is common to find
  more than one event happening in your 
life at any given year. Often, many
  events occur simultaneously, and if they 
do, the blueprint will reflect this.
  Since Ada has many 1’s on her 
blueprint (A is 1, and her Life Lesson
  Number is 1), the 1 will be used more 
often in addition and subtraction,
  yielding an abundance of events at 
the same age. This suggests that some
  years in our lives will be more active 
than others, which we know is true.
  You will also notice that the numbers 
in the center of the squares and on
  the sides of the triangle are often 
activated, but the Life Lesson Number, in
  the center of the triangle, is activated 
on each line of the blueprint. The Life
  Lesson must be learned; it is therefore 
repeated more than any number on
  the blueprint.
The Minor Process.
  This time we have 3 steps and 2 
sets of numbers. Again we use the
  ages at each end of the line, but this 
time we use the number value of the
  letters in the name under consideration.
Step 1: Use the single digit on the line   to determine the two ages when
the experiences will take place.
  Step 2: Use the higher number in the 
center of the square to determine
  the younger age experience.
Step 3: Use the higher number on the   side of the triangle to determine the
older age experience.
  Since we use our name in the minor 
process, the experiences are more
  personal. Whereas two people may have 
the same birth date, it is highly
  unlikely that their birth 
names would be identical.
  Your birth date makes up the numbers 
on your triangle; it also makes up
  your Life Lesson Number. You always 
use the triangle numbers to compute
  your older age experience because 
the older you are, the more you are
  dominated by your Life Lesson Number. 
And, we can assume, the older you
  are, the more capable you are of coping 
with your life lesson. Remember,
  the numbers representing your birth 
date are your most important numbers.
  Now let us apply the minor process 
to Ada Wynn Lunt’s youth square
  and see what we find.
Line AB: Use 0 and 9,   the ages at each end of the line.
Step 1: Use the single digit on line AB,   which is 1. To age 0 add the
single digit; from age 9 subtract the   single digit. 0 + 1 is 1. 9 minus 1 is 8.
Step 2: For the younger age experience   (age 1): add the higher number
on the line to the higher number   in the center of the square. 1 + 17 is 18 or 9.
At the age of 1 there was an 18 or 9 experience.
  Step 3: For the older age experience 
(age 8): add the higher number on
  the line to the higher number on the side 
of the triangle. 1 + 11 is 12 or 3. At
  the age of 8, there was a 12 or 3 experience.
Line BC: Use 9 and 18, the ages at   each end of the line.
Step 1: Use the single   digit on line BC, which is 4. To age 9 add the
single digit; from age 18 subtract the single   digit. 9 + 4 is 13. 18 minus 4 is 14.
Step 2: For the younger age experience   (age 13): add the higher number
on the line to the higher number   in the center of the square. 4 + 17 is 21 or 3.
At the age of 13 there was a 21 or 3 experience.
  Step 3: For the older age experience 
(age 14): add the higher number on
  the line to the higher number on the side 
of the triangle. 4 + 11 is 15 or 6. At
  the age of 14 there was a 15 or 6 experience.
Line CD: Use 18 and 27, the ages   at each end of the line.
Step 1: Use the single digit   on line CD, which is 1. To age 18 add the
single digit; from age 27 subtract the single   digit. 18 + 1 is 19. 
27 minus 1 is 26.
  Step 2: For the younger age experience 
(age 19): add the higher number
  on the line to the higher number in the 
center of the square. 1 + 17 is 18 or 9.
  At the age of 19 there was an 18 or 9 experience.
Step 3: For the older age experience (age 26):   add the higher number on
the line to the higher number on   the side of the triangle. 1 + 11 is 12 or 3. At
the age of 26 there was a 12 or 3 experience.
  Now let us look at Ada’s power 
square using the minor process.
  Line DE: Use 27 and 36, the 
ages at each end of the line.
  Step 1: Use the single digit on the 
line, which is 5. To age 27 add the
  single digit; from age 36 subtract 
the single digit. 27 + 5 is 32. 
  36 minus 5 is 31.
Step 2: For the younger age   experience (age 31): add the higher number
on the line to the higher number in the   center of the square. 23 + 74 is
97, which becomes 16, or 7. At the age   of 31 there was a 16 or 7 experience.
Step 3: For the older age experience   (age 32): add the higher number on
the line to the higher number on the   side of the triangle. 23 + 12 is 35 or 8. At
the age of 32 there was a 35 or 8 experience.
  Line EF: Use 36 and 45, the 
ages at each end of the line.
  Step 1: Use the single digit on line 
EF which is 7. To age 36 add the
  single digit; from age 45 subtract the single 
digit. 36 + 7 is 43. 45 minus 7 is 38.
  Step 2: For the younger age experience 
(age 38): add the higher number
  on the line to the higher number in 
the center of the square. 25 + 74 is
  99, which becomes 18 or 9. At the age of 
38 there will be an 18 or 9 experience.
  Step 3: For the older age experience 
(age 43): add the higher number on
  the line to the higher number on the side 
of the triangle. 25 + 12 is 37 or 1. 
  At the age of 43 there will 
be a 37 or 1 experience.
  Line FG: Use 45 and 54, the 
ages at each end of the line.
  Step 1: Use the single digit on the 
line, which is 5. To age 45 add the
  single digit; from age 54 subtract 
the single digit. 45 + 5 is 50. 
  54 minus 5 is 49.
  Step 2: For the younger age experience 
(age 49): add the higher number
  on the line to the higher number in 
the center of the square. 14 + 74 is
  88, which becomes 16 or 7. At the age of 
49 there will be a 16 or 7 experience.
  Step 3: For the older age experience 
(age 50): add the higher number on
  the line to the higher number on the side 
of the triangle 14 + 12 is 26 or 8. At
  age 50 there will be a 26 or 8 experience.
And finally, we will use the minor   process to examine Ada Wynn Lunt’s
wisdom square and foresee the kinds of   experiences she will have from
ages 54 to 81.
  Line GH: Use 54 and 63, the 
ages at each end of the line.
  Step 1: Use the single digit on the 
line, which is 5. To age 54 add the
  single digit; from age 63 subtract the single 
digit. 54 + 5 is 59. 63 minus 5 is 58.
  Step 2: For the younger age experience 
(age 58): add the higher number
  on the line to the higher number in 
the center of the square. 14 + 33 is
  47 or 11. At age 58 there will 
be a 47 or 11 experience.
  Step 3: For the older age experience 
(age 59): add the higher number on
  the line to the higher number on the side 
of the triangle. 14 + 14 is 28 or 1. At
  the age of 59 there will be a 28 or 1 experience.
Line HI: Use 63 and 72, the ages   at each end of the line.
Step 1: Use the single digit   on the line, which is 1. To age 63 add the
single digit; from age 72 subtract the single   digit. 63 + 1 is 64. 72 minus 1 is 71.
Step 2: For the younger age experience   (age 64): add the higher number
on the line to the higher number in   the center of the square. 1 + 33 is 34 or 7.
At age 64 there will be a 34 or 7 experience.
  Step 3: For the older age experience 
(age 71): add the higher number on
  the line to the higher number on the side 
of the triangle. 1 + 14 is 15 or 6. At
  the age of 71 there will be a 15 or 6 experience.
Line IA: Use 72 and 81, the ages   at each end of the line.
Step 1: Use the single digit   on the line, which is 4. To age 72 add the
single digit; from age 81 subtract the single   digit. 72 + 4 is 76. 81 minus 4 is 77.
Step 2: For the younger age experience   (age 76): add the higher number
on the line to the higher number in   the center of the square. 4 + 33 is 37 or 1.
At age 76 there will be a 37 or 1 experience.
  Step 3: For the older age experience 
(age 77): add the higher number on
  the line to the higher number on the side 
of the triangle. 4 + 14 is 18 or 9. At
  age 77 there will be an 18 or 9 experience.
This completes our discussion of the line   experiences of an individual
from birth to age 81.
  We suggest at this point that you 
select the names and birthdates of your
  family and friends, place them on the 
blueprint, and work out their line
  experiences. This will accomplish 2 
goals: 1. you will become familiar
  with the procedure, and 2. you will be 
able to correlate what you find with
  the individual’s past experiences and 
discover for yourself how effective the
  blueprint really is.
After 81.
  Those not in possession of their 
mental faculties at age 81 must
  begin their youth squares over again 
with the 1st letter of the first name, 
  as in childhood.
Assuming that Ada keeps   her wits about her after 81, we do the
calculations in the same way but with new   letters on the lines. Since Ada
left line IA with a D on it (see   figure 3) we begin her new youth square with
the second A of ADA WYNN on line AB. A is l. W   is 23 or 5, and goes on line BC.
Y is 25 or 7 and goes on line CD.   The number on the side of the triangle (her
birth month) is still 11. The total for her new   youth square is 1 + 23 + 25 +
11 is 60 or 6.
  Figure 5: New Youth Square for 
Ada Wynn Lunt after Age 81.
  After age 81, if you are still 
mentally alert, each line of your new
  square equals 21 years, rather than 
nine as in the first youth square.
  Up to age 81, you have completed 
nine cycles of nine years. After
  81, you live under a trinity or 
three 7-year spiritual cycles. You
  have reached a higher level of consciousness;   therefore each new line
covers 21 years.
  Applying the major process to the first 
line of the new youth square, here
  is what we find.
Step 1: We use the 60 or   6 from the center of the square and the ages at
either end of line AB. 81 + 6 is 87. 102 minus 6   is 96. She will have 60 or 6
experiences at ages 87 and 96.
  Step 2: We use the numbers on the side 
of the triangle, 11 or 2, and the ages
  at either end of line AB 81 + 2 is 
83. 102 minus 2 is 100. At ages 83
  and 100, she will have 11 or 2 experiences.
Step 3: We use the numbers in the center   of the triangle, 37 or 1, and the
ages at either end of line AB. 81 + 1   is 82. 102 minus 1 is 101. She will have
37 or 1 experiences at ages 82 and 101.
  Now we will apply the minor 
process to Ada’s new youth square.
  Step 1: We use the single digit on line 
AB, 1, and the ages at either end of
  the line. 81 + 1 is 82. 102 minus 1 is 101.
Step 2: To determine the younger age   experience, we add the unreduced
number on the line to the unreduced   number in the center of the square. 1 +
60 is 61 or 7. Ada will have a 61 or   7 experience at age 82.
Step 3: To determine the   older age experience, we add the unreduced
number on the line to the unreduced number   on the side of the triangle. 1 +
11 is 12 or 3. Ada will have a 12   or 3 experience at age 101.
FIVE: MORE WITH NUMBERS.
  THIS CHAPTER DISCUSSES four 
additional techniques based on
  your personal numbers. It would be 
impossible to contain within one
  book all the possible methods one 
could employ to work with numbers and
  number combinations. Here are just 
a few. We hope you enjoy them.
  The ABC’s.
You have seen how to make   a life analysis by using the number found in
your name and your birthdate on the Divine   Triangle. Along with this
method, in which the numbers   represented by each letter in your name are
added to each other to get the Path of   Destiny Number, it is also possible to
delineate further by evaluating each   letter separately and in sequence. The
numbers represented by each separate   letter have an underlying influence
on your life and affect the total energies   at work at any given time. You
should read the delineations of   each number in your name in conjunction
with the information on your blueprint.
  When a number represented by one of 
the letters in your name is found
  on a line of your blueprint, that letter 
is emphasized and that age span is
  called a peak cycle. A letter is also 
emphasized if it appears three or more
  times in your name or if it is the first 
vowel or the first letter of your name.
  A letter acts as a health factor 
whenever the letter is at peak cycle.
  The 1’s.
A IS THE HEAD LETTER,   powerful and complete. You are good
intellectually and require several   outlets for your energies. You are
not a builder but a planner,   and you want others to carry out your plans. You
have lots of ideas and begin many projects but do   not always finish them. A
is a letter of initiative,   self-reliance and will power.
A at a peak cycle brings activity   and the opportunity for new starts. You
can achieve leadership in business or   in the community. This is a time to
learn the lessons of self-reliance and   double your resolution to get ahead
through your own efforts.
  A as a health indicator means to watch 
out for the lungs or diseases of the
  respiratory system.
J IS A, STEPPED UP   NINE DEGREES; therefore, it is a more intense
vibration. Materially and spiritually,   it is full of high aspirations,
which are necessary to develop   more profound powers. You are honest,
benevolent, brilliant and often inventive.
  J at a peak cycle nearly always means 
gain and advantage in some form.
  You should extend a helping hand to 
those less fortunate and keep your
  spirits high if you want to enjoy good 
fortune in the rhythm of J. Willing or
  not, you will be put in a position of 
leadership, and if this extends to
  business, promotions will result. You 
may also be a leader in family affairs.
  Through the letter J you will almost 
always experience gain and advantage
  in some form.
J as a health factor   gives a feeling of well-being.
S IS A LETTER OF ENDURANCE. The   ancients called it “the letter of
surrender.” You are spiritually   intense and can sting or charm. S
brings love and new starts into life and   attracts money, but it is not always a
happy letter.
  S at a peak cycle will triumph over 
obstacles to attain ambitions. There
  will be many turnings in your life’s 
path. If you are responding negatively
  to this letter, there will be emotional 
upheavals, failure and uncontrolled
  impulses. Be positive.
S as a health factor may   sharpen an illness but it also tends to bring
recovery and reduce trouble, thus creating better   conditions.
The 2’s.
  B IN A WOMAN’S NAME indicates 
mother love. B in a man’s name
  means love of nature and domesticity. 
It is not a strong material
  letter. You can go to great heights 
and equally great depths. You are
  emotional and fixed in your opinions. 
Your instinct is to follow others. You
  are hospitable, but if B is negatively 
expressed, you become selfish.
  B at a peak cycle is influenced by 
psychological currents. This letter
  brings strong desire for partnerships 
or marriage. The lesson is patience,
  calmness and serenity of mind. Decisions 
should be left to others. This is a
  cycle of hidden development which 
may not be recognized by others.
  B as a health factor can cause 
nervousness, headaches and emotional
  upsets.
K MEANS EXTREMES in fortune,   health and spirituality. You are
very versatile, idealistic and   intuitive. You either enjoy great
success or suffer abject misery. The   solution is service to others. Use your
leadership abilities for humanity and   not for self-glorification.
K at a peak cycle displays   creative inspiration and idealism. It should be
directed toward a positive goal, or this cycle   may result in conflict. There is
great emotional force here for   either intense romantic experience or
spiritual exaltation. It brings travel and   change and can bring success if
caution is used.
  K as a health factor indicates 
nervousness, which may come from
  overactivity. But it is a good force, 
giving strength and endurance.
  T WILL EITHER BUILD or break down, 
save or slay the human race.
  You like to control everyone within 
your influence, to shape things
  to your own liking. You have to 
learn self-control, as you are very
  emotional and can be swayed. If positive, 
you develop high spirituality, as
  the quality of the 2 is reinforced 
by the 0 of God’s protection.
  T at a peak cycle represents reconstruction. 
This influence creates a sense
  of restlessness unless ideas are expressed 
through practical activity that can
  benefit humanity. Time should not be 
wasted nor idleness tolerated. This is
  a time to work for better world 
conditions. It is also a time of spiritual
  growth. T as a health factor indicates 
stress through change or travel. 
  If it is with an A, there can 
be accidents and operations.
  The 3’s.
C IS SCATTERED ENERGY.   3 is a scattering vibration because it
wants to go in many directions at once.   If C is the first letter, you
have a jovial nature but are apt   to have an emotional life. You find it
difficult to save money. You like to have   several lines of effort going at
once. You are a good talker and   promoter and seldom worry over anything.
At times, you can be impatient, irritable   and impulsive, and if negative,
careless and immoral.
  C at a peak cycle favors artistic, 
political or business success. It is good
  for self-expression, productivity 
and growth. There should be rich
  emotional experiences, prosperity and 
happiness. This is a strong marriage
  vibration.
C as a health factor may cause concern   with the throat, thyroid and vocal
cords.
  L GATHERS where C scatters. 
You always bring to completion
  anything you start. You are 
generous but want returns from your
  giving. L as a whip symbol indicates 
action, and since you have executive
  ability, you are a leader. You are moral, 
balanced, honest and intellectual,
  and you may attain spirituality. 
L indicates travel.
  L at a peak cycle brings service and 
self-sacrifice, but also rich rewards
  in human relationships. Creative ideas 
bring profit. This letter can bring
  marriage and increasing concern 
with financial matters.
  L as a health factor suggests paying 
attention to the throat, which is true
  under all 3’s. Two L’s together 
tend toward accidents or falls.
  U HAS THE UNIVERSAL spirit of 
both the C and the L. U is shaped
  like a cup that holds the gifts of 
talent, charm and luck, but if you
  become greedy and try to fill your 
cup too full, you may lose through
  selfishness. You are an enthusiastic 
collector and you will be tenacious in
  holding onto the things you accumulate. 
U is called the rocker letter, and
  you can be a victim of indecision. 
While you are deciding, someone else 
  may take things away from you. You 
have a good memory and should make
  an effort to have a positive attitude.
U at a peak cycle indicates a time for   subconscious development. There
may be delays and restrictions now,   and family responsibilities can
increase, but there is a growing   sense of security and protection. Marriage is
activated. Be cautious under a U, because things   tend to slip away, often
through a personal fault,   such as overlooking and neglecting to grasp an
opportunity. Matters should be examined carefully,   and a lawyer consulted
in business deals.
  U as a health factor tends to bring 
loss and anxiety. Worries cause other
  ills, such as high blood pressure. Strive 
to remain calm and at peace within.
  The 4’s.
  D IS BALANCE. It acts as a good 
anchor. You are strong in material
  matters, determined and stubborn. 
You have good business ability.
  You are a good worker, steady and 
practical, a builder who takes
  responsibility well. These qualities 
may bring you a position of authority
  and power.
D at a peak cycle represents a   striving to lay a firm foundation for the
future. Temporary delays are possible,   but valuable lessons in patience can
be learned. Speculation should be avoided   and conservatism practiced.
Travel is possible.
  D as a health factor is not notable 
unless there are two D’s together. That
  can indicate unhappy travel situations 
and unfortunate probings into your
  business or personal affairs, which 
could adversely affect your health.
  M SPIRITUALIZES the attributes 
of the D and is more idealistic.
  You are not a leader but will carry 
on for others. You have psychic
  powers. You may have to carry burdens 
in this life, but there is no one who
  bears the cross more bravely and 
with so little complaint. You have a
  receptive nature and may bear burdens 
for others because of the sacrificial
  aspects of this vibration. You 
like home and security above all.
  M at a peak cycle looks for 
regeneration and renewal. It is a
  reconstruction period when old ideas 
are swept away to make room for
  better ones. Unexpected changes 
can occur now, and they should be
  recognized as a door to progress where 
a new phase of happiness will open.
  M as a health factor can indicate 
temper, causing rash behavior and
  headaches. Because of the potential 
for drastic changes, more than one M
  can be dangerous unless dealt with 
carefully. Two of any letter doubles its
  effects.
  V IS THE MASTER BUILDER. You are 
fixed in your opinions, firm
  in your friendships and square in 
your dealings with others. You are
  an excellent worker. Since you are 
both possessive and emotional, you can
  be either very practical or very 
impractical and unpredictable. Your dual
  nature needs to become steadfast. 
You are the marrying kind.
  V at a peak cycle has the potential 
of wanderlust coupled with too much
  generosity or extravagance with money. 
If V appears together with U there
  could be losses in speculation or 
gambling. At the worst, there could be
  dissipation and excess—at best, 
courage in the face of difficulties.
  V as a health factor can cause 
nervous and emotional breakdowns
  through overactivity. Cultivate peace within.
The 5’s.
  E IS A STRONG VOWEL ruled by 
Mercury, the cosmic messenger.
  You are fine when in harmony 
but changeable when in discord,
  because many of your best qualities 
are then reversed. You are more
  attracted to the worldly than to the 
spiritual. You are entertaining but may
  be impulsive. Freedom is a necessity, 
and you find it difficult to settle down
  to specialize. Your versatility results 
in many changes, and often brings
  travel. Your fine intellect is capable 
of high honors if applied seriously. If
  you are drawn to the spiritual, you 
become idealistic, hopeful and intuitive.
  E at a peak cycle will have to choose 
among many chances for change.
  There will be constant activity, new 
people and new situations. If you are
  single, there is the opportunity now 
for marriage, but you should be sure it
  is true love rather than emotional impulse.
E as a health factor indicates good   health. The heart feels free, but
impulsiveness should be controlled.
  N IS THE ANCIENT SYMBOL for a 
scribe; therefore, this letter
  implies a person with a vivid 
imagination who can bring inspired
  messages to the world. You must remain 
positive, or instability will result.
  You like to enjoy the pleasures of life, 
and when self is overcome, you can
  rise to the heights. Envy, jealousy 
and divorce are common to someone
  whose name contains an N.
N at a peak cycle brings variety,   change and experiences. It is favorable
for commercial or political enterprises   and may involve much competition.
N as a health factor can cause   irritability because of emotional upsets
brought on by thoughts of marriage. If N   occurs with a G, marriage has a
very good outcome. If N and T are   together, marriage prospects and
harmony after marriage are certain.
  W, TO EXPRESS ITSELF, must follow 
the divine law of love. You
  have great persistence and hate 
to give up. You are a good mixer,
  charming, magnetic and intuitive. If 
negative, you can be selfish, greedy
  and too daring.
W at a peak cycle signifies   an alternation between the heights and the
depths. This is a time for self-evaluation and   for finding your potential. This
cycle can bring marriage.
  W as a health factor can bring 
headaches due to the nervous and
  impulsive vibration of the letter.
The 6’s.
  F HAS THE STRONG characteristics of Venus. 
You are kind, home loving,   hospitable and friendly. 
Since you take responsibility well,
  you are a good organizer of social 
affairs. Compassion for others is an
  outstanding trait. If F is 
expressed negatively, you are sad.
  F at a peak cycle centers your 
attention on family matters and duties
  connected with loved ones, whether 
married or not. It is time to learn the
  meaning of willing service, because 
the alternatives may be disappointing.
  Wise choices are necessary.
F as a health factor indicates trouble,   including nervous conditions of the
heart. If F is with an N, illness is   possible. If F is with U or O, watch your
financial matters, or losses may occur.
  O IS PATIENT, persevering and strong 
willed. You are a good student,
  absorbing knowledge easily and 
retaining it well. Jealousy can
  cause upsets in marriage relationships 
and home conditions; therefore you
  must learn emotional control. O stands 
for virtue or vice; there is no
  middle path. You are either a saint or a sinner.
  O at peak cycle presents an 
opportunity for progress by allowing a
  release from present limitations. A 
radical change in viewpoint may occur,
  and fears can be erased. If O is with 
a G, there is gain. If O is with a U,
  losses are possible, and if O is with 
a D, there will be expenses incurred
  through necessary travel, plus the 
possibility of changes in the home.
  O as a health factor can cause worry 
and depression if you are responding
  to its negative side. Slowing down 
can prevent heart irregularities and
  despondencies. O is compatible with 
religious matters; therefore, prayer can
  help and inspire.
X IS A DUAL LETTER - the   upper half is open to receive the better
things in life, the lower half is open to   overindulgence, especially of
the sexual nature. If positive,   you can advance mentally and spiritually. If
negative, you are angry, unfaithful and sensuous.
  X at a peak cycle flashes a danger 
signal at the crossroads, a warning of
  deceit. If the positive side is expressed, 
financial matters will be beneficial,
  and good relations with people of 
influence will be established.
  X as a health factor indicates a danger 
of falls and or injury to the back. It
  is better not to ride a horse during this 
period, or to travel to high places.
  Mountain climbing should be postponed.
The 7’s.
  G IS RELIGIOUS and mystically 
inclined with a deep understanding.
  You are inventive, intuitive and 
extremely methodical. Since your
  will is so strong, you are hard to 
convince. You also dislike advice.
  G at a peak cycle is a time of 
expansion, productivity and material
  success. It is favorable for the 
arts, music, drama or literature.
  G as a health factor is always good. If 
illness occurs, there is help toward
  recovery. G occurring with a D or 
an F indicates financial gain.
  P CONFERS POWER of expression, 
either in speaking or writing. You
  are clever, clear-sighted and 
intellectual. You can be dominating and
  rather impatient if restricted. If 
negative, you will be selfish and
  unsympathetic.
P at a peak cycle presents   bright prospects for the future. Because of your
creative talents, good fortune is in store. Plan   wisely and aim toward the
future during this cycle.
  P as a health factor indicates that 
you should not overwork while under
  this letter. If P is with a G, health 
is good; if with a T or B, nervous
  conditions may arise.
Y NEEDS FREEDOM; physical,   mental and spiritual. You hate
bondage in any form. You have a   love of beauty and philosophy, and
you desire achievement. Pythagoras   referred to the letter Y as the two roads
which require that choices be made.
  Y at a peak cycle brings sudden 
change, since it is a branching cycle
  quick decisions are necessary. Decide 
firmly and refuse to look back or
  regret the past. Make the best of 
things after the choice is made.
  Y as a health factor gives a feeling 
of well being and protection while on
  water.
The 8’s.
  H MUST CREATE and fulfill. You 
attract success and money, but will
  either be very wealthy or very 
poor because your good judgment
  fails at times. You are a lover of 
nature and do not need others for your
  happiness. H is a power letter, 
sufficient unto itself. If negative,   you are
selfish.
  H at a peak cycle acts as a gate to 
the path of life, a gate which can be
  either a barrier or an opening. This 
is a time when the cosmic laws are
  working toward completion of karma. 
There is concern with financial or
  legal affairs and with the physical 
and material side of life.
  H as a health factor can bring personal 
strain. If H is with an N, nervous
  strain and even illness are possible.
Q HAS MORE ORIGINALITY than H and more   intensity of feeling.
You are a leader. You   have a fine mind, and you like to talk. A
relationship with unknown forces gives you   secret strength and an air of
mystery. You are deep.
  Q at a peak cycle grants great mental 
vitality, intuitive power and creative
  attainment. There is opportunity for 
outstanding leadership and distinction
  in your career. This is a good time 
for public activity and travel. 
  Encourage others unselfishly.
Q as a health factor indicates   a period of strong health.
Z HOLDS ALL THE QUALITIES of   H and Q but it is more spiritual.
You have aspiration and inspiration,   hope and guidance. Since you
are intuitive and perceptive,   you understand human nature. You have the
power to achieve. Diplomacy and discretion   make you a good mediator.
Z at a peak cycle runs a zig-zag   course in a cycle of hidden progress.
Though there are setbacks, you are   advancing to a higher level. In this
period, learn patience and its rewards.
  Z as a health factor gives control 
over illness. There may be a need to
  control others or to carry out 
secret missions in healing.
  The 9’s.
I IS A LAW unto itself. Your   tendency is to finish whatever you start.
You can be very obstinate if limited,   and you chafe under dictatorship.
Since I is an artistic vowel,   you like to use the pen or the needle (writing,
fashion design etc.). You make a good lecturer   but can also do clerical
work. You can become loving,   compassionate, intuitive and humanitarian.
Runs of luck, either good or bad, follow you.   If negative, you have a
nervous, quick temper.
  I at a peak cycle creates an interlude 
of ups and downs. By standing firm
  on your convictions, great inspiration 
results. Wavering will bring
  fluctuations in fortune, resulting in 
new beginnings. This is a period when
  personal feelings are paramount; 
sensitivity, sympathy and intuition are
  high.
I as a health factor brings   nervousness, probably caused by over-exertion.
Intense emotions can cause exhaustion.
  R HOLDS ALL THE POSSIBILITIES 
of the I, except that it
  represents the brighter side of the 
9’s. You are tolerant and like to
  help humanity. You are very active. 
If negative, you may have to guard
  against losses. If R is followed by an 
I, you may be touchy and irritable.
  R at a peak cycle provides an opening 
for new plans and ideas, calling for
  a new occupation in life. Resolve to 
attain status through this period. 
  Since the pace is fast, there is 
a need to slow down somewhat.
  R as a health factor is called the 
growler letter, indicating undercurrent
  rumblings, but not very harmful unless 
two R’s are stimulated into action at
  the same time. If negatively 
expressed, accidents may occur through
  rashness or carelessness, 
which can bring on sickness.
  Your Career.
Choosing a career is an important   step in your life. If you have more than
one talent, you may have difficulty   deciding what career course to follow.
This is when a study of your numbers and   their particular vibrations can
help. Your numbers indicate your   abilities; use them to plan your future.
Your career number is your Life Lesson Number.   To find it, add the
numbers in your birthdate. Always   add the whole number of the month and
day, without breaking them down to   a single digit. Add the year number
through once and use the total in your   computation. For example, 1945 is 1
+ 9 + 4 + 5, which equals 19. Use   19 for the year 1945.
November 12, 1940 is a   career number 1. 11 + 12 + 14 equals 37 or 1. 
Or put another way: 1 + 9 + 4 + 0 is 14, or 1.
  If your birthdate totals a 
master number, do not reduce it.
  Many times the same vocation is found 
under different numbers. In those
  cases, look at the other careers in that 
career number to help you determine
  how you would use that particular 
vocation. For example, lawyer appears
  under numbers 2, 3, 6, 7, 8 and 9. In 
number 3 it would be expressed as a
  court lawyer, in number 7 as a divorce 
lawyer, in number 8 as a corporate
  lawyer, patent attorney or 
financial advisor, and so on.
  Now read the descriptions below to 
find out your compatible careers.
  1 AS A CAREER NUMBER: Inventor, 
designer, aviator, leader of a
  group, department or business 
organization. Ambassador, director,
  program planner, store owner, officer 
in the military. Producer of motion
  pictures, television or theater 
productions. Lecturer, promoter, sales
  manager, engineer, executive, 
explorer. Creative work of all kinds.
  2 AS A CAREER NUMBER: Diplomat, 
agent, caterer, clerk, lawyer,
  insurance adjuster or any position 
that demands arbitration. Architect,   bookkeeper, bill collector, custodian, 
legislator, librarian, minister, foreign
  minister, politician, teacher.
3 AS A CAREER NUMBER: Artist,   musician, nurse, dietician,
physician. Writer, entertainer,   cosmetician, salesperson of cosmetics
or art supplies. An artisan in any   line. Lawyer, judge, engineer, pastor,
priest, playground director, athletic coach,   scout director, vocational school
teacher, philosopher. A 3 should avoid   positions of close confinement or
long hours, as self-expression is   necessary for happiness and best work.
4 AS A CAREER NUMBER: All building trades,   numerologist, farmer,
miner, industrialist, mason,   draft person, mechanic, accountant,
undertaker, efficiency expert,   executive, professional boxer, engineer,
mechanic, chemist, laboratory technician.
  5 AS A CAREER NUMBER: Salesperson, 
advertising executive,
  investigator or detective, writer, 
teacher, lecturer, copy reader, news
  columnist, editor, any career in 
communications. Graphologist, proofreader,
  publisher, playwright, TV or radio 
operator, actor, secretary, consultant,
  psychology or language teacher, 
interpreter, import-export dealer.
  6 AS A CAREER NUMBER: Actor, 
host or hostess, homemaker,
  teacher, writer, nurse, doctor. Interior 
decorator, artist, florist, singer,
  voice teacher, tutor. Beautician, 
dressmaker or designer, fashion expert,
  musician, perfumer, incense chemist, 
herbalist. Any branch of theater work.
  Marriage counselor, divorce attorney. 
The 6 needs to be in service to others
  in some way.
7 AS A CAREER NUMBER: Archeologist,   astrologer, engineer, healer,
preacher, author, dentist, farmer,   lawyer, photographer, psychic
investigator, any sort of research   work. Could do library work as cataloger
or indexer. A 7 dislikes manual labor and   does best in an atmosphere of
refinement and culture.
  8 AS A CAREER NUMBER: Banker, 
financier, engineer, undertaker,
  chemist, carpenter, crime investigator, druggist, 
exterminator, firearms or dynamite expert. Lawyer,   organizer, supervisor, philanthropist, 
manufacturer, architect, broker.
  9 AS A CAREER NUMBER: Researcher, 
electrician, explorer,
  magician, narcotics agent, scientist, 
doctor, teacher, preacher, lecturer,
  surgeon, diplomat. Iron worker, artist, 
musician, lawyer, spiritual healer,
  horticulturist, landscape gardener.
11 AS A CAREER NUMBER: Inspirational   writer, teacher, lecturer,
promoter, sales manager,   leader in public affairs. Professional in
metaphysical work, astrologer, astronomer,   numerologist. Electrician, space
age electronics expert, astronaut.
  22 AS A CAREER NUMBER: 
Executive, diplomat, ambassador,
  government agent, adjuster, mediator, 
humanitarian, librarian, school
  superintendent. A 22 belongs in public 
service or in an advisory capacity in
  some way.
33 AS A CAREER NUMBER:   Professor of Bible interpretation, public
servant. A 33 birthdate is usually   destined for sacrificial service in some
capacity. It could be a life of nurturing or   of giving up one’s own career in
order to serve a parent,   a community or the world.
44 AS A CAREER NUMBER: Farmer,   builder, doctor, nurse, dietician,
soldier, politician, banker,   businessman, social worker. A 44 must contribute
to the world in a substantial, materialistic way.
  Number Compatibility.
Many people like to determine   their compatibility with someone else. We
can do this by comparing Life Lesson   Numbers. This is the number that has
the heaviest influence on our lives.
  Here we will use only the single digit 
of the Life Lesson Number. If you
  have a master number, reduce it to a 
single digit and work with that single
  number. For those who do not wish to 
reveal their birthdate, simply have
  them figure their own Life Lesson 
Number and give only the number to
  you.
The following list offers   all possible Life Lesson Number combinations.
Can a 3 be compatible with a 5? Let’s find out.
  1 WITH A 1: Since leadership is the 
keyword for both of you, you would
  be a dynamic combination. You would 
both want the same thing at the
  same time and would join ranks in 
competition with other forces. You might
  have to work at harmonizing your 
personalities since you both tend to be
  aggressive. This is a combination 
that requires cooperation, and the
  necessary endurance to see a 
project through to its conclusion.
  1 WITH A 2: The 1 person has the plans, 
initiative and leadership qualities,
  whereas the 2 person has the tact 
and the co-operative and supportive
  talents to carry out the plans and ideas 
initiated by the 1. The 1 person is
  innovative and the 2 person is supportive, 
and a perfect agent or promoter
  for those innovations. As partners, 
mates or co-workers, you will be
  winners because each has what the other lacks.
1 WITH A 3: By combining the originality and   leadership abilities of the 1
person with the 3 person’s charm,   magnetism and know-how in expanding
an idea and making it into a real success,   this combination can bring honor
and fame as well as happiness. The only   real danger is that the 1 person can
be impulsive, and the 3 person can   scatter his or her energies, but by
concentrating their combined talents,   almost anything can be accomplished.
1 WITH A 4: This combination gives a firm   foundation for business success.
The 1 person acts as the decision maker,   plus supplying creative, inventive
and original talents. However,   the 1 person needs the practicality,
thoroughness and steadying support of   the 4 person as a restraint on
impulsiveness. The 1 person can   irritate the 4 with impulsiveness, whereas
the 4 person can irritate the 1 with   extreme caution. 
But, all in all, this is a good combination.
  1 WITH A 5: Both of you are active, 
changeable and original, with a dash of
  versatility. The two of you can have the 
world by the tail, and can learn and
  earn a lot together. The 5 person 
can sell the ideas of the 1 person.
  Educational projects would be ideal for 
you as a team, but let the 5 person
  take care of the publicity.
1 WITH A 6: The number 6 person   loves art, socializing, beauty and luxury,
and these worlds can be opened by the 1   person who provides the sparkle,
drive and leadership for fruitful   outcomes. There can be friction if the 1
person insists on his or her own way,   so a co-operative effort in a cultural
field such as interior decorating,   landscape gardening, gourmet cooking or
the like could be rewarding for this team.
  1 WITH A 7: A spiritual or metaphysical 
relationship could work well here.
  The 1 person must not be too demanding 
or hasty, because the 7 person
  needs time for privacy, analysis and 
thought. Where the 1 person is the
  extrovert, the 7 person is the introvert, 
and each should be aware of the
  other’s need for independence. The 7 
person should communicate ideas and
  follow the leadership of the 1 
person, acting as a brake for the
  impulsiveness of the 1 person. This 
can be a powerful combination.
  1 WITH AN 8: You are both aggressive, 
used to making your own decisions,
  so it’s either cooperate willingly or 
become rivals and antagonists. If you
  calm down as a unit and use your 
combined powers wisely and with careful
  analysis, there is great power and 
courage in the face of difficulties. Pool
  your energies and talents and be 
winners together, otherwise you may
  destroy each other. This is a 
strong business combination.
  1 WITH A 9: The 9 person’s depth of 
vision and breadth of understanding
  combined with the originality and 
dash of the 1 person can create a
  combination of inventive genius. 
The 1 person is the pusher in this
  partnership, supplying the diverse 
ideas which fall upon seasoned and wise
  ears. Together the courage and wisdom 
of this combination make it one that
  will go far towards success.
2 WITH A 2: Perfect equilibrium   and equal sharing are the watchwords
here. You both like to build experiences,   and are able to give and
receive understanding. Learn   to work with, rather than for, the other, and
you will both share in the material benefits   of your partnership. You are
both extremely aware of the   other person’s point of view, and must not
become so bogged down that you cannot effectively   make decisions and
take action.
  2 WITH A 3: This is a popularity 
combination. While the 2 person knows
  how to win friends and contracts and 
keep things running harmoniously, the
  3 person can expand upon friendships 
and inject life and spontaneity into
  them. The 3 person’s creative talents 
can be effectively managed and
  balanced by the 2 person’s ability to 
stay in the background and take care of
  the practical aspects of keeping 
things on the right track.
  2 WITH A 4: There is no competition 
or friction in this combination of
  numbers. In fact, you each bring out the 
best side of the other. There is great
  harmony and understanding in whatever 
endeavors you undertake. The 2
  person acts as a harmonizer and 
coordinator, and the 4 person plans the
  practical basis for solid foundations. 
You would both do well in home
  building, real estate, farming 
and other related professions.
  2 WITH A 5: This partnership will 
produce an “all or nothing” experience.
  The 2 person would be better off to 
take second place, waiting until his or
  her strength is needed. The 5 person can 
talk and plan for both, and friction
  could occur if the 2 person pours cold 
water on the 5’s wit and brilliance. If
  he or she can hold the 5’s attention and 
interest, the 2 person can sustain the
  5’s ideas and help bring them into fruition.
2 WITH A 6: This can be an extremely   successful combination of numbers.
The tact and magnetism of the 2 person   combined with the love of beauty
and the appreciation of home and   family of the 6 person can attract the
confidence of others who see these two   people as sensitive, caring, artistic
and co-operative. The public will respond   to your combined charms. You
would do well in charity work,   financial drives or any organizational work
to do with homes, children or domestic affairs.
  2 WITH A 7: This is an extremely 
harmonious combination and creates no
  friction; rather the need is to guard 
against too much serenity. There is
  agreement in occult, philosophical and 
mystical studies, and much potential
  for growth on the spiritual plane 
together. The 2 person understands and
  knows how to co-operate, and the 7 
person needs periods alone to meditate
  and perfect ideas that eventually 
can be shared beneficially by both.
  2 WITH AN 8: Your combined energies 
can take you far towards material
  success as this is an excellent money 
and financial combination. As a team
  you can build prestige, and enjoy a 
fine reputation for honesty and fair
  dealings. You are both efficient, and 
if the 8 person is careful not to
  overshadow and overwhelm the 2 
person through his or her dynamic
  vibration, a good friendship can 
develop. The 8 person can rely upon the
  diplomacy and tact of the 2 
person in all business dealings.
  2 WITH A 9: The mediating and 
balancing capabilities of the 2 person
  coupled with the insight and vision 
of the 9 person can produce a winning
  combination. Each contributes 
harmoniously to the other, and when both
  are working for a cause, the momentum 
is increased through having a
  common goal. The 2 person’s ability to 
see both sides of a situation lends a
  firm foundation to the imagination 
and humanitarian instincts of the 9
  person, and together they can do much 
to advance the needs of the world.
  3 WITH A 3: This is a combination to 
watch out for. Since you both are
  apt to take too many chances, and 
believe in luck, which you have to a
  certain extent, you may extend yourselves 
too far. Your urge towards big
  ideas and expansive methods of operating 
your affairs can lead to waste and
  frivolousness. There is a bit of the 
gambler in both of you. If these qualities
  can be toned down and controlled, 
you can tackle just about anything.
  3 WITH A 4: For these two persons to 
co-exist, a compromise is necessary.
  Each one must listen to the other, for 
the 3 person is expansive and free
  thinking, and the 4 person is saving 
and conservative, and these qualities
  can clash. A lasting association is 
possible if the 3 person is aware of the
  partner’s need for stability and caution, 
and if the 4 person eases up and
  listens to the broadening ideas of 
the 3. Together they can implement
  sparkling ideas with a firm foundation.
  3 WITH A 5: These vibrations are 
harmonious, and almost anything you try
  together is bound to succeed. You are 
both set for full speed ahead. “Do it
  now” is your motto; the only danger is 
in being too hasty with your ideas.
  You are both full of ideas which the 
3 person can display effectively, and
  the 5 person can sell easily. You may 
find yourselves carrying on more than
  one business at a time to supply 
outlets for your numerous ideas.
  3 WITH A 6: This should be a very good 
relationship because you are both
  congenial, and fond of pleasure and 
socializing. Understanding and 
  harmony exist between you because 
you have similar personality traits
  which should develop into a lasting 
friendship where you feel safe in
  making long range plans and 
investments together. Businesses which
  promote friendship and love, such 
as planning engagement or wedding
  parties, would appeal to you both.
3 WITH A 7: The 3 person supplies   the energy and inspiration in this
relationship whereas the 7 person gives   understanding and deep insight.
This is a winning combination in   which the mystical 7 benefits from the
lively traits of the 3, and the 3 learns   to examine his or her own scattering
tendencies and deal more productively   with his or her talents. The 3 needs
to socialize, and the 7 needs time alone.   With each other’s needs in mind,
this partnership can be ideal.
  3 WITH AN 8: If handled constructively, 
there is nothing that can stop this
  combination. The 3 person has the 
talent for ideas, communication and
  effective advertising; the 8 has the 
power and drive in big business and
  philanthropic projects. Each supplements 
the other’s needs. If your aims are
  compatible, this is an unbeatable 
combination, and your highest hopes can
  be attained through 8’s practical 
business sense and 3’s social talents.
  3 WITH A 9: There is much idealism 
in these two numbers and work in the
  material world can be neglected for 
the social pleasures of the 3, and the
  philanthropic leanings of the 9. 
Co-operation and mutual understanding
  abound here, and perhaps the combination 
is too compatible. As a team, you
  must bring your idealism into focus, and 
realize that practicality is essential,
  and that the material world is 
as important as the spiritual.
  4 WITH A 4: This can be an 
extremely lucky and compatible
  combination, bringing financial 
success and material comfort. You are
  both builders in the material sense, and 
like to have visible products at the
  end of your endeavors. Your work must 
have practical value. Be careful that
  you don’t become too immersed in the 
physical side of life, neglecting the
  spiritual side of your development. This 
is a danger as you are both so much
  alike.
4 WITH A 5: This can be a   good combination chiefly because you are so
different. The 4 has the practicality and   solidity to stabilize your combined
efforts. The 4 is the balance wheel   in this partnership. The 5 person supplies
the wit and a variety of ideas. The 5   also has many contacts because he or
she communicates so well with others.   The 5 person can more easily adjust
a mood to blend harmoniously with the 4,   and the results will be worth the
effort.
  4 WITH A 6: You are both serious and 
practical, yet you love pleasure enough
  to keep a balance between your work 
and your play. Thus you create an
  atmosphere of happiness and joy. The 4 
person is willing to work for gains,
  and the 6 person loves the home and 
the arts. Your combined talents might
  take you into professions that involve 
beautifying your surroundings. Your
  work would be appreciated and enjoyed by others.
4 WITH A 7: The 4’s talent for strong practical   planning and thoroughness
coupled with the deep insight and   imaginative talents of the 7 person can
create a combination of powers that   can add up to great achievement. This
is a good balance, because the 4 person   lives in a material world whereas
the 7 lives in a mental world. By   combining these two aspects wisely,
perfect balance can be achieved.
  4 WITH AN 8: Where the 8 person thinks 
in terms of great power and large
  business deals, the 4 person can be a 
perfect balance with the ability to see
  the small details and add the practical 
stability that must shore up any large
  enterprise. You both tend toward 
physical and material achievement; the 4
  moves in a more cautious and conservative 
manner, while 8 progresses in a
  larger and more sweeping way. But as 
a team you balance each other well.
  4 WITH A 9: The 4 person has a valuable 
chance in this partnership to learn
  the lessons of life because the 9 
person has much wisdom and insight to
  offer which can lift the 4 from the 
material world and show the value of
  work in a higher sense. The 9 person 
learns the lessons of practicality and
  work on the material plane from the 
4. There is an exchange of ideas and
  philosophies in this combination, and 
a melding of brilliance with reason
  and judgment.
5 WITH A 5: You are both   temperamental and excitable and when you
work in conjunction these qualities come   to the surface. If you wish to
work well together, you will have   to suppress outbursts that arise from 
nervous energy. Channel your combined   energies into work that is
adventurous and exciting,   which might involve travel, or at least something
that offers you both change and intellectual   stimulation. Neither of you likes
to be tied down for long, and if you   are to be successful as a duo, you must
find outlets for your energies.
  5 WITH A 6: The 5 person intellectually 
stimulates and brings out the
  domestic and artistic qualities of the 
6 person. The 6 lends form, beauty and
  order to the variety of ideas and the 
impulsive nature of the 5 person. The
  home would be well cared for and 
tastefully decorated, and much activity
  would take place there. This is a 
stimulating yet comfortable combination
  that puts others at ease.
5 WITH A 7: Too much talk and   excitement on the part of the 5 person can
turn the 7 person off. The 7 needs periods   of quiet introspection and
meditation and can be a calming   influence on the 5. The 5 can add the zip
and zest that the 7 person might lack.   Together, through mutual respect
and understanding of the other’s   innate qualities, this combination can be
extremely successful in the world of ideas.
  5 WITH AN 8: This combination might 
be called greased lightning if you
  combine your vibrations wisely. You 
are both highly charged, the 5 in the
  realm of ideas and communication, 
and the 8 in the worlds of business,
  finance and sports. There is a great 
desire for adventure, and the 8 provides
  the underlying strength to shore up 
any projects. You both may need to
  listen to inner promptings and 
restrain your dynamism at appropriate
  moments.
5 WITH A 9: This can be a   winning combination in that the 5 provides the
versatility and promotional abilities to   present the 9’s insight into the realm
of science and research to the world at   large. The 5 has the energy and the
contacts and the know-how to advertise   the expertise and wisdom of the 9
person, whereas the 9 person has   the balancing qualities to turn the 5’s
adventures into reliable and sustaining results.
  6 WITH A 6: Beauty, art and comfort 
are paramount in the nature of the
  6, and too much sweetness and roses 
can be tiresome if there is no real
  constructive stimulation to go with it. 
The danger here is that the sameness 
  of your natures is apt to let things go 
along peacefully, while avoiding work.
  By combining your talents wisely, 
you can create an atmosphere of
  incredible beauty in the home or the 
community. There is great gentleness
  and love of the home in this combination.
6 WITH A 7: This can be a difficult   combination in that the 6 person is
involved in the domestic and artistic   world much to the exclusion of all
else, and the 7 person is also immersed   in separate worlds of mind and
thought. The danger here lies in   failure to communicate with each other at
all. Cooperation and the determination   to communicate with one another
must be decided upon from the outset.
  6 WITH AN 8: This combination has strong 
possibilities. The 6 person offers
  the loving support and the spark of 
imagination that will benefit the 8
  person in whatever profession is chosen 
as a goal. The 8 person with the
  stronger financial and commercial 
tendencies, will most likely take the lead
  in this partnership, and the 6 can 
offer creative methods for handling and
  presenting those ideas, plus the 
domestic background support that makes
  the end of the day a joy.
6 WITH A 9: Here is a chance for   lasting friendship or partnership. You enjoy
mutual feelings about most subjects,   and both believe that marriage
demands the spirit of give and   take. The 6 supplies the beauty, the 9 the
truth; and together you can learn much from   each other in the realm of the
domestic 6, the microcosmic unit,   and in the realm of the universal 9,
the macrocosmic unit. Each teaches the other   the importance of the smaller
and the greater.
  7 WITH A 7: Peace is the key word 
here. You are both mature in your
  emotions and no disruption or 
argument between you could endure for
  long. You both tend to live in a world 
of ideas, and realize the transitory
  nature of the material world. The 
danger here lies in your rejecting the
  physical world as illusory, and 
consequently spending all of your time in
  your minds, with no one to pay the 
bills and keep the wolf from the door.
  7 WITH AN 8: This could be an excellent 
partnership. The fire and strength,
  heat and force of the 8 can overpower 
the quiet 7, but 8’s organizational and
  executive abilities can greatly enhance 
the insight and vision of the 7 
  person. Thus the 8 provides the strength 
while the 7 predicts the outcome
  and adds the calm intellect that 
enhances the daring qualities of the 8.
  Together this can be a most 
effective partnership.
  7 WITH A 9: Great depth and sympathies 
exist in this pair. Inner growth is a
  goal you both seek, and the 
universality of ideas brings harmony,
  understanding and peace to you both. 
This is an almost perfect combination
  as you have a meeting of mind, heart 
and soul in harmony. A mystical
  relationship could develop and your 
combined talents could produce
  benefits for all humanity, in which 
your wisdom could enhance the lives of
  all those you contact.
8 WITH AN 8: This is a perfect   pair for a revolution. As power meets
power head on, the sparks may fly.   On the other hand, you could have
  the opposite effect and extinguish 
each other. As with all energies, this
  combination can be used wisely. 
Handled with great care, your combined
  strength and executive capabilities could 
present a united front to the world
  that could not be beaten by any ordinary 
opposition. This is a partnership
  that could accomplish almost 
anything in the world.
  8 WITH A 9: This is a good partnership 
for scientific or philanthropic
  research and activity. The creative 
qualities of the 9 combined with the
  power and practicality of the 8 
make this a tremendously successful
  combination in research and financial 
or economic circles. At the same time
  you could contribute much to each 
other in a spiritual sense since the 8
  supplies the stability and values 
of the material world while the 9
  exemplifies the universal philosopher.
9 WITH A 9: This may be said to be a   combination of destiny, as you
are both intuitive, clear-sighted   and imaginatively creative. You both
know the value of enhancing your own   lives through the teaching and
caring of others, and some great   benefit to humanity should result from this
partnership. A deep bond will grow between you,   and you will gain much
enlightenment from one another.
  Missing Numbers in Your Name.
The missing numbers in your name,   sometimes called the karmic numbers,
indicate the qualities you must develop   in this lifetime. They represent the
qualities and attitudes we must adopt in   order to expiate the shortcomings
of our past lives.
  In our example, Ada Wynn Lunt has 
the following number vibration, 
  as shown on screen.
To these we will add a   new number vibration. Add the double digit Path
of Destiny Number to the double digit Life Lesson   Number. The result is
the Power Number.
  The Power Number represents a 
vibration that comes into play through
  your 30’s and 40’s. It is a 
combination of all your talents.
  If we examine the number vibrations 
in Ada’s name, we see that she is
  missing the numbers 6, 8 and 9. If any 
of these numbers is present in her
  four personal numbers, her Power 
Number, or a nickname she may use,
  then that vibration is already present 
in her life. Her four personal numbers
  are 12 or 3; 29 or 11 or 
2; 41 or 5; and 37 or 1. 
  Her Power Number is 78 or 15 or 6. 
From the missing group of 6, 8 and 9, 
  we can eliminate the 6, which 
she has as a Power Number. 
  So Ada is only missing numbers 
8 and 9. The qualities
  represented by these numbers must 
be incorporated into her life.
  Remember that in addition to the 
personal numbers and the Power
  Number, a nickname or some other 
name change may fulfill a missing
  number vibration. Therefore, check 
all possible name and number
  combinations before deciding that you 
lack a certain number or numbers. In
  this case, master numbers can be reduced 
to fulfill vibrations. An 11 fulfills
  a 2 vibration, a 22 fulfills a 4, a 33 
fulfills a 6, and a 44 fulfills an 8.
  Find your missing numbers, if any, and 
read the following delineations to
  determine what qualities must be built 
into your character. For further
  delineation, look up the number in Part 2.
1 AS A MISSING NUMBER: You need   to build in the qualities of
leadership, courage and daring.   It is important that you learn to make
decisions and take control of any given   situation which requires your effort.
You need to assert your individuality so   that you will be heard and listened
to. You must learn to be first and   best at something, and to step out into new
and untried situations. Exert your pioneering   instincts, and dare to be
yourself.
  2 AS A MISSING NUMBER: You 
must learn the fine art of
  cooperation, tact and diplomacy. 
Working in partnership with another
  requires giving on your part; learn 
to stay in the background when
  necessary. When you understand how 
another person thinks and feels, you
  can get in touch with your own 
emotions and feelings, because you can
  view the reaction you have upon 
others. By developing an awareness of
  opposites, you will enhance 
your own creative potentials.
  3 AS A MISSING NUMBER: You need 
to learn to express yourself.
  Develop your communicative talents 
by training yourself in the art of
  speaking through acting, elocution, 
foreign languages, and so forth, so that
  you can be an influence in the lives 
of others. You should develop a happy
  optimistic outlook and spread enthusiasm 
and sunshine wherever you go.
  More socializing and entertaining 
are necessary in your life. Travel,
  broaden your mind and examine new 
opportunities. Be aware of your
  appearance because this has a distinct 
influence upon those you meet.
  4 AS A MISSING NUMBER: You must 
develop an orderly, systematic
  life style which produces a structured 
existence. You must translate
  your energies into tangible forms 
through hard work and discipline. Budget
  finances and keep accounts in order. 
Become thrifty and practical, steady
  and reliable. Use reason to arrive at 
conclusions. Learn what it means to be
  the salt of the earth, because your 
life needs a strong foundation set upon
  the cornerstone of order, logic and hard work.
5 AS A MISSING NUMBER: You need to learn to   adjust to changes
and to become more   versatile. You must develop your freedom,
physically, mentally and spiritually so   that the more adventurous side of
your nature can express itself. You   need to travel and socialize with many
types of individuals so that your own   perspective on life can be enhanced
and broadened. Develop your mind   and learn to communicate effectively
with others. Your mind is your greatest resource,   and should be utilized to
its fullest potential.
  6 AS A MISSING NUMBER: You must 
express more love for others. 6
  is the domestic vibration, and the 
lack of it indicates a need to deepen
  ties of affection with those in your 
immediate family and environment. You
  should develop a personal sense of 
responsibility for those who depend
  upon you, and a social sense of 
responsibility for the welfare of those in
  your community. By becoming aware of 
the needs of others, you increase
  your ability to see both sides of an 
issue and therefore sharpen your talent
  for making keen judgments. This acute 
sense of balance heightens your
  artistic sense and may help you realize 
hidden creative abilities. The artist
  in you may then emerge.
7 AS A MISSING NUMBER:   You need to develop your mind, and your
intuitive and philosophical side. You   must abandon the material world
on occasion and learn to go within   yourself, to meditate and ponder upon
the substance of your being. Trips alone   into the countryside or to the
seashore should be part of your   yearly schedule. During these isolated
periods, your creative imagination can   roam freely to explore the world of
thought. Develop your perceptions   so that you will not be fooled by
outward appearances. Study philosophy,   religion and metaphysics to
expand your mind.
  8 AS A MISSING NUMBER: You should 
channel your energies into
  the material world to attain a 
position of leadership. Develop your
  business sense. Your role should be 
that of the big boss, the executive
  who organizes and manages big 
business. Your ambition should carve a
  niche for you in the financial world 
where wealth can be easily accrued.
  This number bestows strength and will, 
and by using these qualities you
  could easily become an outstanding 
athlete. The proper use of this vibration 
  will bring you recognition in either the 
financial or sports world because, by
  embracing its gifts, you have the strength 
and determination to overcome all
  obstacles and attain your goals.
9 AS A MISSING NUMBER: You must   become the universalist, the
humanitarian whose primary concern   is for the welfare of others. You
should develop breadth of thinking,   and universal love for others. Close
personal ties may have to take second   place to your first priority, which is
sharing your spiritual knowledge with the   world and inspiring those whose
lives seem dark and hopeless.   You must become an example for others
through your compassionate and   sympathetic nature. Allow no limits upon
your thinking. Dare to dream the highest dream,   and perform the impossible
task. Become charitable,   loving and understanding.
SIX: THE LIFE OF EDGAR CAYCE.
  WE WILL DEMONSTRATE, through the life 
of the famous psychic Edgar Cayce, 
  how the processes described in the 
previous chapters of this book 
  can be implemented to delineate 
an individual’s life. 
  Rather than begin at birth and 
work through his entire life, 
  we have chosen some of the major 
events in Cayce’s biography. 
  Through them we will establish 
the validity of the Divine
  Triangle as a blueprint of his life. We 
will present only basic biographical
  information because Edgar Cayce is 
well-known, and written material on
  his life is plentiful.
Edgar Cayce was born near Hopkinsville,   Kentucky, on March 18, 1877.
Although poor and uneducated,   he was to become a beloved figure known
as the sleeping prophet. A deeply   religious man, he lived a devout
Christian life and used his remarkable   psychic talents to benefit others.
Putting himself into a trance, Cayce   would diagnose the illnesses of those
who consulted him, and then recommend   treatments and cures. He also
possessed the ability to read the   akashic records. It is said that every sound,
thought and vibration since the beginning   of time is registered on these
records, including the first sound   vibration which called forth manifestation.
Based on the akashic records of those   individuals who applied for such a
reading, he brought out information   on their past lives that was useful in
their present incarnation. In this way he   helped thousands of people regain
their health and conduct their   lives in more constructive patterns.
Edgar Cayce expressed his belief that   the name indicates the soul’s place
in evolution. He said in reading   number 281 dash 31:
"Each entity, each soul,   is known in all the experience through its
activities - as a name to designate it   from another, it is not only then a
material convenience, but it implies...   a definite period in evolution of
the experience of the entity   in the material plane."
In reading number 261 dash 15 he says:
  "As related to individuals these 
each vibrate to certain numbers
  according to their name, their 
birthdate... Then when these appear,
  they become either as strengths or 
as losses or as helps or as change…
  but... they are rather as the signs, 
or the omens; and may be given as
  warnings... in any manner that 
they may be constructive in the
  experience of the individual."
In reading number 311 dash 3 he says:
  "In any influence, will... a self, the 
ego, the I AM... is the greater force
  to be dealt with, but as numbers do 
influence... a knowledge of same
  certainly gives an individual a 
foresight into relationships..."
  We chose Edgar Cayce to demonstrate 
the application of double digit
  numerology and the Divine Triangle 
because his life clearly demonstrates
  the truth of the above quotes. By 
delineating Edgar Cayce’s name and
  birthdate we arrive at his four personal 
numbers: Soul Number 12 or 3; Outer
  Personality Number 33; Path of Destiny 
Number 45 or 9 and his Life Lesson
  Number 44.
Soul Number 12 or 3: This is a very   high spiritual vibration. It represents a
conscientious individual who is innately   aware of our spiritual relationship
to God and who has a great desire to   help others. Through his ideals, Cayce
was inspired to dedicate his life to   the betterment of humanity. He had a
heartfelt interest in all who sought his   advice, and his greatest desire was to
help them find health and happiness. He   taught the value of prayer and
meditation and practiced this   in his own life. For many he was a living
example of a truly spiritual human being.
  Outer Personality Number 33: 33 is 
a master number which carries an
  almost Christ-like vibration. In his 
outer physical life, Cayce worked
  constantly, giving both diagnostic 
and life readings through which he
  brought out the theory of reincarnation, 
and revealed knowledge of
  astrology and numbers as related 
to the lives of human beings. He
  interpreted the Bible as well. Because 
he was seen by many as a savior, he
  felt the need and obligation to work 
for the good of others, even though his
  own fortunes would suffer.
Path of Destiny Number 45 or 9:   This number indicates that his mission in
life was highly spiritual and mystical.   He was not satisfied with worldly
success alone. This Path of Destiny   Number signifies one who loves to
teach and serve others. It endowed   Cayce with the courage and fortitude to
face the changes and emergencies in his   life, giving him faith that
everything would work out with   God’s help and guidance. This number also
indicates one who is willing to work hard,   even at the expense of his own
health. Cayce’s theme seemed to be:   “Let me ever be a channel of blessings,
today, now, to those I contact in every way.”
  The Life Lesson Number 44: This 
number, derived from the birthdate,
  indicates what a person should learn 
in this life. This master number 44 is
  called Atlas. In mythology Atlas 
supports the heavens on his shoulders. 
  In other words, Cayce would take
responsibility for others, attend   faithfully to duty and make the best of any
situation which had to be met. He possessed   common sense and foresight in
order to make fair judgments. He   was very understanding in his dealings
with others, anxious to please and   help in any possible way. He believed
that service was the way toward mastership,   and his life and works are
ample proof of this.
  To choose which numbers are important 
in the delineation of events in a
  lifetime, select those that coincide 
with the four personal numbers (in our
  example, 12 or 3, 33, 45 or 9 and 44). 
The personal numbers are activated
  whenever they are energized by 
corresponding numbers. Thus a 12 or 3 event
  would energize Cayce’s 12 or 3 Soul 
Number, as would any type of 3; a
  single 3, a 21, a 30, a 39, etc. 
Therefore any variation of 3, 6, 8 or 9
  would activate the corresponding 
personal number; however, it would
  activate it according to the double digit 
variation. In addition, it seems that
  often one’s master numbers, e.g. Cayce’s 
33 and 44, are triggered by any of
  the four master numbers: 11, 22, 33, 44 
or by their base digits 2, 4, 6 and 8.
  To see how Cayce’s life is reflected 
in his numerological blueprint, we
  examine each nine-year cycle in two 
ways. First, we will look at the
  correlations between events in his life 
and the experiences under the major
  process and the minor process which 
are operating during each nine-year
  cycle. Secondly, we can see whether 
any of the events correspond with the
  personal year and the three four-month 
period numbers also operating
  during that time.
We will discuss here only the   most significant events of Cayce’s life. We
will, however, list all the experiences under   the major and minor process for
each nine-year cycle; in addition   we will list each personal year and that
year’s division into the three four-month   periods. You will then have before
you all the temporary numbers which   affected Cayce throughout his life,
even though we will discuss here only the   most significant events of his
life.
  Age: Birth to Nine. To calculate the 
experiences of Edgar Cayce’s first
  nine years by the major process, 
(see figure 6) we will work with the
  number in the center of the square, 19 
or 1, the number on the side of the
  triangle, 3, the number in the center of 
the triangle, 44, and the ages at each
  end of line AB, 0 and 9. 0 + 1 is 1. 9 
minus 1 is 8. At ages 1 and 8, Cayce had a
  19 or 1 experience. 0 + 3 is 3. 9 minus 
3 is 6. At ages 3 and 6, Cayce had a 3
  experience. 0 + 8 is 8. 9 minus 8 is 
1. At ages 8 and 1, Cayce had a 44
  experience.
To calculate the experiences   by the minor process, we work with the
numbers in the center of the square,   19 or 1, on the side of the triangle, 3, and
on the first line, 5, and the ages at either   end of line AB. 0 + 5 is 5. 5 + 3 is
8. At age 5, Cayce had an 8 experience.   9 minus 5 is 4. 5 + 19 is 24 or 6. At 
age 4, Cayce had a 24 or 6 experience.
  We do not have much information about 
Cayce’s first nine years. We do
  know that, according to his mother, 
even as a small child he saw and talked
  with invisible playmates. At age four 
the death of a much loved grandfather
  proved to be a very emotional experience. 
A few months later he claimed
  that his grandfather appeared and 
talked with him. This occurred under a
  minor process 24 or 6 experience, a love 
and family vibration. On the period
  table, at age four all basic 
numbers are energized.
  Here are the calculations for the 
yearly periods from birth to nine.
  Ages Nine to Eighteen: To calculate 
the experiences of these years by the
  major process, we work with the number 
in the center of the square, 19 or 1,
  the number on the side of the triangle, 
3, and the number in the center of the
  triangle, 44, and the age at each end of line BC, 
9 and 18. 9 + 1 is 10. 18 minus 1 is 17. At ages   10 and 17, Cayce had a 19 or 1 experience. 9 + 3 
is 12. 18 minus 3 is 15. At ages 12 and 15, Cayce   had a 3 experience. 9 + 8 is 17. 18 minus 8 is 
10. At ages 10 and 17, Cayce had a 44 experience.
  To calculate the experiences by the 
minor process, we work with the
  number in the center of the square, 19 
or 1, the number on the side of the
  triangle, 3, the number on the line, 4, 
and the ages on each end of line BC, 9
  and 18. 9 + 4 is 13. 4 + 19 is 23 or 5. At 
age 13, Cayce had a 23 or 5 experience.
  18 minus 4 is 14. 4 + 3 is 7. At 
age 14, Cayce had a 7 experience.
  At age 10, in a 45 or 9 personal year, 
Cayce began work as a church sexton.
  This year corresponds to his Path 
of Destiny Number, 45 or 9, and the
  experiences of this particular time 
were indicative of his future path.
  At the age of 12 or 13, Cayce was 
playing in one of his favorite
  spots by a brook. He sat down to read 
the Bible which he always kept with
  him. He turned to the Book of 
Judges (13, verses 2 through 22) 
  to read about the vision of Manoah and, 
while perusing the passage,   he heard a strange sound, saw a
bright light, and then heard a   voice saying, “Your prayers have been heard; 
what would you ask that I may grant your wish?”
  Cayce answered: “Just that I may be 
helpful to others, especially children
  who are ill, and that I may love my fellow man.”
The next day, he could not keep his mind   on his school work. Because
his spelling was unsatisfactory,   his teacher made him stay after school and
write a misspelled word on the blackboard   five-hundred times. That night
his father decided to drill him on   the spelling homework, but Cayce did not
do well. It was late and he was getting   sleepy. Just then Edgar seemed to
hear a voice within him saying:   “Sleep a little and we may help you.”
He laid his head on the spelling book and   slept for a few minutes. When
he awoke he knew how to spell   every word in the entire book. This is his
story of how universal consciousness came to him.
  A few days later he was hit by a 
baseball. He returned home, dazed, and
  asked his mother to make a certain 
poultice for the back of his head. She
  did, and in the morning he was well. 
This was his first insight into
  successful health prescriptions.
During these two years, his basic   Soul Number, 12 or 3, was being
activated. At age 12, he had a   major-process 3 experience on the
blueprint, and at age 13, he was   in a 39 or 3 personal year. During that
39 or 3 personal year, he experienced a 12   or 3 period number between
November and March, which   energized again his Soul Number, and 
illustrated graphically how his inner   talents and abilities from past lifetimes
were being filtered into his consciousness.
  At age fifteen Cayce quit school 
and went to work on a farm. At this
  time, he was also under a major-process 
3 experience on the blueprint,
  which showed that his latent talents 
were being awakened. Perhaps a formal
  education would have disturbed his 
growing psychic talents. Also on the
  period table this occurred under a 17 
or 8 four-month period. This relates to
  his Life Lesson Number, 44. Basically 
the 8 (a master number, 44, reduced)
  means that the serious business of the 
Life Lesson is being energized. 8 is a
  disciplinary number, and it means 
that work and responsibility are now
  necessary for accomplishment.
Here are the calculations for the   yearly periods nine to eighteen, which
reflect the portion of Cayce’s   life described above.
Ages Eighteen to Twenty-seven:   To calculate the experiences by the major
process, we work with the number in the   center of the square, 19 or 1; the
number on the side of the triangle,   3; and the number in the center of the
triangle, 44; and the ages at each end of   line CD, 18 and 27. 18 + 1 is 19. 27 
minus 1 is 26. At ages 19 and 26,   Cayce had a 19 or 1 experience. 
18 + 3 is 21. 27 minus 3 is 24. At   ages 21 and 24, Cayce had a 3 experience. 18 + 
8 is 26. 27 minus 8 is 19. At ages 19 and 26,   Cayce had a 44 experience.
To calculate the experiences by   the minor process, we work with the
number in the center of the square,   19 or 1; the number on the side of the
triangle, 3; and the ages at each end of line CD,   18 and 27; and the number
on the third line,   7. 18 + 7 is 25. 7 + 3 is 10 or 1. 
At age 25 Cayce had a 10 or 1 experience. 
  27 minus 7 is 20. 7 + 19 is 26 or 8. At 
age 20 Cayce had a 26 or 8 experience.
  At age 18, Cayce met Dwight L. 
Moody, an itinerant evangelist,
  whose advice changed the course of 
his life. The event occurred in a 44
  personal year. By the minor process we 
find Cayce had a 26 or 8 experience at
  age 20, the year he fell in love and 
proposed marriage to Gertrude Evans.
  Not only does the 8 correspond with 
the Life Lesson Number (44 reduced),
  but also 26 or 8 is the number of karma. 
Their marriage was definitely karmic,
  as revealed in later readings which 
depicted their past incarnations together.
  It was destined for both of them to 
work out their former lives in their
  present relationship.
Here are the calculations   for the yearly periods, ages 18 to 27 
which reflect that portion of Cayce’s life.
  When Cayce was 22, he obtained 
a job as a traveling salesman.
  This was during a 12 or 3 period. 
After some months he became ill and
  decided to return to Hopkinsville. He 
was unable to speak above a whisper,
  the story goes, and a traveling 
hypnotist, hearing of the case, suggested
  using hypnotism to determine the 
cause of the ailment. Cayce underwent
  hypnosis easily, and talked naturally 
while under its influence. He described
  his own condition as a partial 
paralysis of the vocal cords and also
  prescribed the cure. He said, “The body 
should increase circulation to the
  affected part for a short time.”
To everyone’s surprise, his throat   turned red, then redder, until Cayce
said in a clear voice: “Suggest that the   circulation return to normal and the
body awaken.”
  This was a turning point in a technique 
that he was to develop and use
  countless times to help others. 
He was now 24 years old. He was
  operating under a major process 3 
experience, activating his Soul Number,
  12 or 3. There was also in operation a 
17 or 8 period number which corresponded
  to his Life Lesson Number, 44.
He moved to Bowling Green,   Kentucky, at age 25, and took a
position in a bookstore. Stories of   his strange gift were spreading. At this
time in his life he was asked to give a   reading for a school superintendent’s
five-year-old daughter. Her mind had   stopped developing and she suffered
various other ailments. Many doctors   had been consulted but none could
find a way to help the child. Cayce   agreed to give a reading, and, while in
trance, he related the cause and prescribed   the treatment for the ailment. He
found that the child had struck   her spine when she stepped down from a
carriage. This had caused an impingement   of some nerves. After a few
treatments she could talk again,   and eventually she returned to normal.
This was another turning point in   Cayce’s life, as news of this remarkable
case spread swiftly. Notice the minor-process   10 or 1 experience in indicating
a turn for the better, at the same   time as he was experiencing a 33 personal
year which corresponded to his Outer Personality   Number. Increased public
attention would require   increased responsibilities.
Cayce married Gertrude Evans   on June 17, 1903. He was 26. The
wedding occurred during a 21 or 3   period number, relating to his Soul Number
12 or 3. He was also under a 44 experience on   the blueprint, a number which
ties in with his Life Lesson   Number. In addition, his wedding date matches
his Path of Destiny Number, 45 or 9. June 17,   1903 reduces to 6 + 17 + 13, equaling 36 or 
9. All 9’s relate to emotional experiences, 
  and the 36 9 particularly 
brings added responsibility.
  Ages 27 to 36: To calculate 
the experiences by the major
  process, we work with the number in 
the center of the square, 42 or 6; the
  number on the lower side of the triangle, 
18 or 9; and the number in the center
  of the triangle, 44; and the ages at each 
end of line DE, 27 and 36. 27 + 6 is
  33. 36 minus 6 is 30. At age 30 and 33, 
Cayce had a 42 or 6 experience. 27 + 9 is
  36. 36 minus 9 is 27. At ages 27 and 36, Cayce had 
an 18 or 9 experience. 27 + 8 is 35. 36 minus 8 is   28. At ages 28 and 35, Cayce had a 44 experience.
To calculate the experiences by the   minor process, we work with the
number in the center of the square,   42 or 6; the number on the lower side of
the triangle, 18 or 9; the number on line DE,   1; and the ages at each end of line
DE, 27 and 36. 27 + 1 is 28. 1 + 42   is 43 or 7. At age 28 Cayce had a 43 or 7
experience. 36 minus 1 is 35. 1 + 18 is 19 or   1. At age 35, Cayce had a 19 or 1
experience.
  On March 16, 1907, two days before 
Cayce’s thirtieth birthday, a son,
  Hugh Lynn, was born. This date falls 
under a 19 or 1 period number, a number
  which is known as a love number. 
Because it is a basic 1 it shows a new
  beginning coming into his life. As his 
thirtieth birthday arrived, he came
  into a 38 or 11 personal year with a 20 
or 2 period. These two base digit numbers
  activate his two master numbers, his 
33 Outer Personality Number and his
  44 Life Lesson Number. This was a time 
of far-reaching importance, as the
  numbers energized most areas of his 
blueprint and number table. Also, at
  age 30, under the major process, we 
find Cayce under the influence of
  the 42 or 6 experience; the 6 corresponded 
to the base digit of his master
  number 33. Any 6 means some kind of 
domestic or home condition change.
  Not only did the 42 or 6 vibration operate 
in this relationship, but Hugh Lynn
  helped to maintain his father’s image 
in the world, thereby fulfilling the
  outer personality tie between the time 
of his birth and the period under
  which his father was operating at the 
time. (Note that there is no exact cutoff   date between one period and another, 
as events can occur shortly before
  the new period begins.)
Also, Hugh Lynn’s Life Lesson Number,   36 or 9, tied in with his father’s
Path of Destiny Number 45 or 9. This   has been confirmed over the years.
From 1940 to the present, this son   has been the prime factor in promoting
the work of the Edgar Cayce Foundation,   and in building the organization
into the successful entity it now is.
  At age 33, an article about Cayce’s 
ability, published in the New
  York Times, gave him nationwide 
publicity. Not only did his age, 33, 
  correspond to his Outer Personality 
Number at the time of this event,
  but he was also operating under a 17 
or 8 period number, which tied in with
  his Life Lesson Number, 44. He was also 
working in a major process 42 or 6
  experience, thus activating his Outer 
Personality Number again. He was
  working in the limelight now, and his 
public image became an issue in his
  life. He was learning the lessons that 
accompanied this unexpected fanfare.
  The following year a second child was 
born and died. His wife, Gertrude,
  became ill with tuberculosis. His 
readings saved her life and convinced
  Cayce of their value. This same 
year, at age 34, he was investigated
  by Dr. Munsterberg of Harvard University. 
These events all occurred during
  a 33 personal year, which is also 
his Outer Personality Number. He was
  required to fulfill a role 
others expected of him.
  Here are the calculations for the 
yearly periods, ages twenty-seven to
  thirty-six, which relate to the experiences 
of Cayce’s life described above.
  Ages 36 to 45: 
To calculate the experiences by the major
  process, we work with the number in 
the center of the square, 42 or 6; the
  number on the lower side of the triangle, 
18/9; the number in the center of
  the triangle; 44; and the ages at each 
end of line EF, 36 and 45. 36 + 6 is 42.
  45 minus 6 is 39. At ages 39 and 42, Cayce 
had a 42 or 6 experience. 36 + 9 is 45.
  45 minus 9 is 36. At ages 36 and 45, Cayce 
had an 18 or 9 experience. 36 + 8 is 44.
  45 minus 8 is 37. At ages 37 and 
44, Cayce had a 44 experience.
  To calculate the experiences by the 
minor process, we work with the
  number in the center of the square, 42 
or 6; the number on the lower side of
  the triangle, 18 or 9; the ages at each 
end of line EF, 36 and 45; and the
  number on line EF, 18 or 9. 36 + 9 is 45. 
18 + 18 is 36 or 9. At age 45, Cayce had
  a 36 or 9 experience. 45 minus 9 is 
36. 18 + 42 is 60 or 6. At age 36, 
  Cayce had a 60 or 6 experience.
The year Cayce was thirty-seven,   his son Hugh Lynn, then six years old,
  injured his eyes while playing. 
Doctors recommended the removal of one
  eye and were apprehensive about saving 
the other. The little boy asked his
  father for a reading, which was given. 
A method was prescribed for saving
  his eyes and restoring sight. Following 
his father’s advice, Hugh Lynn
  recovered entirely; he still has very 
good eyesight today. This same year
  Cayce himself underwent an appendectomy. 
These events occurred under a
  major process 44 experience, 
which is his Life Lesson Number.
  In the last days before Cayce’s 
birthday in 1918, another son, Edgar
  Evans, was born. The date was February 
9, 1918, which yielded a 30 or 3 Life
  Lesson Number for the new child. Cayce 
was then ending a 39 or 3 personal
  year and a 21 or 3 period number and 
entering a 24 or 6 period number, which
  tied in his Soul and Outer Personality 
Numbers during that period of time.
  With a 30 or 3 Life Lesson, the new 
son’s destiny was woven in with his
  father’s Soul Number. We have found 
that quite often families express the
  same number patterns.
Here are the calculations for   the yearly periods, ages 36 to 45, which relate to 
the experiences of Cayce’s life described above.
  Ages 45 to 54: To calculate 
the experiences by the major
  process, we work with the number in 
the center of the square, 42 or 6; the
  number on the lower side of the triangle, 
18 or 9; the number in the center of
  the triangle, 44; and the ages at each 
end of line FG, 45 and 54. 45 + 6 is 51.
  54 minus 6 is 48. At ages 45 and 51, Cayce 
had a 42 or 6 experience. 45 + 9 is 54.
  54 minus 9 is 45. At ages 45 and 54, Cayce 
had an 18 or 9 experience. 45 + 8 is 53.
  54 minus 8 is 46. At ages 46 and 
53, Cayce had a 44 experience.
  To calculate the experiences by the 
minor process, we work with the
  number in the center of the square, 42 
or 6; the number on the lower side of
  the triangle, 18 or 9; the ages at each 
end of line FG, 45 and 54; and the
  number on line FG, 5. 45 + 5 is 50. 5 + 
18 is 23 or 5. At age 50, Cayce had a
  23 or 5 experience. 54 minus 5 is 
49. 5 + 42 is 47 or 11. At age 49,   Cayce had a 47 or 11 experience.
At age 46, after much traveling,   Cayce returned to Selma,
Alabama, to give readings as his   life work. At this time he obtained the
secretarial services of Gladys Davis.   That same year he moved to Dayton,
Ohio, to work with Arthur Lammers,   to give readings on mind and soul, as
well as illness. Thus began his life   readings with information on
reincarnation, numerology,   astrology and similar subjects. The year was
1923. Cayce was working under his Life Lesson   Number, 44, activated by a
44 experience under the   major process on the blueprint.
Cayce’s readings advised that a move   to Virginia Beach, Virginia, would
be helpful in many ways. There he   could build a hospital to give the
treatments prescribed. More and more   people became interested in Cayce’s
work. Morton Blumenthal,   a man with much influence, made arrangements
for the family to move to Virginia Beach. Cayce   was forty-eight years old.
During this period a major   process experience on the blueprint was in
action, activating his Outer Personality Number,   33. Because of the outer
evidence of his abilities,   he was aided by a prestigious individual.
The hospital opened on November 11, 1928,   a day with a 42 or 6 vibration.
Cayce was also under a major-process   42 or 6 experience at that time, which
activated his Outer Personality Number,   33. The 42 or 6 is a strongly religious
number oriented toward helping others.
  In 1931 Cayce realized that the hospital 
was failing and subsequently had
  to be discontinued. This was one of the 
saddest times of Cayce’s life, for his
  hopes had been so high. Cayce was in 
a 35/8 personal year which activated
  his 44 Life Lesson Number. 
Although he experienced some
  disappointments that year, it was also 
a year which gave birth to an event
  perhaps more significant than he had 
imagined: the incorporation of the
  Association for Research and 
Enlightenment in July. This event
  occurred under the number 22 in Cayce’s 
chart (period number for July to
  November 1931). This is the master 
number of the material plane, showing
  a down-to-earth and business-like 
vibration. Although only a few hundred
  members were enrolled in the Association 
in 1931, it now has over 10,000
  active participants.
Here are the calculations for   the yearly periods, ages 45 to 54, which relate to 
the experiences of Cayce’s life discussed above.
  Ages 54 to 63: To calculate 
the experiences by the major
  process, we work with the number in 
the center of the square, 35 or 8; the
  number on the side of the triangle, 23 
or 5; the number in the center of the
  triangle, 44; and his age at each end 
of line GH, 54 and 63. 54 + 8 is 62. 63
  minus 8 is 55. At ages 55 and 62, Cayce had 
a 35 or 8 experience. 54 + 5 is 59. 63 minus
  5 is 58. At ages 58 and 59, Cayce had a 23 
or 5 experience. 54 + 8 is 62. 63 minus 8
  is 55. At ages 55 and 62, 
Cayce had a 44 experience.
  To calculate the experiences by the 
minor process, we work with the
  number in the center of the square, 35 
or 8; the number on the side of the
  triangle, 23 or 5; the number on the 
line GH, 4; and the ages at each end of
  line GH, 54 and 63. 54 + 4 is 58. 4 + 35 
is 39/3. At age 58, Cayce had a 39 or 3
  experience. 63 minus 4 is 59. 4 + 23 is 
27 or 9. At age 59, Cayce had a 27 or 9
  experience.
When Cayce was 55,   the family moved again, this time to a house
on Arctic Circle. This was to be his   permanent home for the rest of his life.
It was there, in June of 1932, that the   first Congress of the Association was held,
an annual event that has continued to this   day. We can see that it was a
karmic experience that the first   congress occurred during a 36 or 9 year which
activated Cayce’s Path of Destiny number, 9,   and his Life Lesson Number,
44.
  Mrs. Cayce’s mother died the same 
year that Edgar Evans Cayce entered
  college. When Cayce was 60, his 
father died. When he was 62, a
  man named Thomas Sugrue came to live 
with the Cayce family. Although Mr.
  Sugrue was ill, he wrote a biography 
of Edgar Cayce after living with him
  for 2 years. The book is called There 
Is a River and was published in
  1942.
When Cayce was 63 years old,   an office was added to the Cayce
residence, providing him with the   privacy he needed for his readings. It is
significant that the yearly table showed   his Life Lesson Number, 44,
overshadowing the whole year,   while the period numbers, 5, 22 and 8,
indicated change (5), then great progress   materially (22) and finally the
carrying out of the basic 8,   (his Life Lesson number 44 reduced) which
vibrationally pervaded many dominant   periods throughout his life.
By that time, Hugh Lynn had taken over   management of the Association, and
Cayce was quite content to be   free of that responsibility.
Here are the calculations for   the yearly periods, ages 54 to 63, which relate to 
the experiences of Cayce’s life mentioned above.
  Ages 63 to 72: To calculate 
the experiences by the major
  process, we work with the number in 
the center of the square, 35 or 8; the
  number on the side of the triangle, 23 
or 5; the number in the center of the
  triangle, 44; and the age at each end 
of line HI, 63 and 72. 63 + 8 is 71.   72 minus 8 is 64. At age 64 (and 71, had 
he not died) he had a 35 or 8 experience. 
  63 + 5
is 68. 72 minus 5 is 67. At   age 67 (and 68, had he not died) he had a 23 or 5
experience. 63 + 8 is 71. 72 minus 8 is 64. At age   64 (and 71 had he not died) he
had a 44 experience.
  To calculate the experiences by the 
minor process, we work with the
  number in the center of the square, 35 
or 8; the number on the side of the
  triangle, 23 or 5; the number on line 
HI, 7; and the ages on each end of line
  HI, 63 and 72. 63 + 7 is 70. 7 + 23 is 
30 or 3. At age 70 Cayce would have had
  a 30 or 3 experience. 72 minus 
7 is 65. 7 + 35 is 42 or 6. 
  At age 65, Cayce had a 42 or 6 experience.
According to the major process calculations,   Cayce’s basic number 8 (44
reduced) is activated twice,   indicating that this was a time for him to
experience his Life Lesson. At age 65   the Search for God books became
available. These books are still   used by all Association's study groups 
both in the United States and abroad.
  Here are the calculations for the yearly periods, 
ages 63 to 67, which relate to the experiences   of Cayce’s life mentioned above.
A personal year runs from birthdate   to birthdate; thus Cayce was still in
his 1944 year when he died. The actual   death date was January 3, 1945, a
23 or 5 experience.
  Cayce’s last reading was given September 
17, 1944, during a 26 or 8 period.
  On January 3, 1945, Cayce’s work in 
the physical body was completed. He
  died at 67 years and 10 months of age, 
in a 39 or 3 personal year and a 21 or 3
  period number, which shows that the 
transition occurred under his Soul
  Number, 12 or 3.
Even after his death, Cayce’s   influence is still felt by many. Some of his
predictions have been fulfilled; some have not   yet occurred. The Association for Research and 
Enlightenment continues to thrive and in 1956   was able to buy back the old hospital building 
in Virginia Beach. This is now the location of   the headquarters and it is open to the public. 
In 1975 a beautiful new library was opened,   dedicated to the work of the Association. 
Within its doors can be found all the
  information from Cayce’s readings, 
sorted and filed in encyclopedic form,
  thus making available the vast 
information which came through the
  instrumentality of one man: Edgar Cayce.
SEVEN: BIBLE SYMBOLOGY.
  THE BIBLE is a veritable mine of 
number symbology. Both the Old
  and New Testaments reveal, by 
use of numbers, depth of meaning
  and hidden concepts which commonly 
escape the casual reader.
  The Zohar, a collection of mystical 
kabbalistic writings, states that, The
  Universe was created by 3 forms of 
expression - Numbers, Letters and
  Words. The letters in all alphabets 
represent definite powers. To study the
  vibratory value of numbers and letters 
is to study the divine creative
  energies in various degrees of 
manifestation. Every name in the Bible
  describes a deeper meaning regarding 
the person or place to which it
  applies. Similarly certain words are 
made to have hidden significance.
  Old Testament.
To read through the Old   Testament, the Torah, Kabbalah, and other
sacred Hebraic writings is to become well   aware of how the Hebrews used
the science of names and numbers   in their number-letter code. By this code
they wished to obscure their meanings from   the uninitiate, and at the same
time to reveal their inner   teachings to the initiate.
Each letter of the Hebrew   alphabet has several meanings - for example
the letter Aleph (A) means life breath,   power, source; while the letter Beth
(B) means house, shelter; and so on   with every letter. The symbology
allowed hidden teachings to be   evident to those who knew how to read the
deeper message contained in the names of all   persons and places described.
Scholars could also penetrate   the mask of allegory and receive or give
divine guidance through numbers and letters.
  For example, the story of Cain slaying 
Abel is about fraternal rivalry. But
  symbolically, the name Cain means 
body and materialistic human desires,
  while Abel stands for the soul and 
idealistic human nature. These characters
  were so named to warn that materialism 
would kill spiritual ideas; hence
  Cain was said to have killed 
Abel (Genesis 4 verse 8).
  Many biblical characters who reached 
periods of spiritual growth and
  development in their lives were given 
new names by divine direction. Thus
  Abram became Abraham (Genesis 17 verse 
5) and Sara became Sarah (Genesis
  17 verse 15). In both cases, the Hebrew 
Heh (H), a letter meaning light and
  having a vibration of 9, was added to 
the name to denote the attainment of
  spiritual light.
New Testament writers also   made name changes to point out an
individual’s spiritual progress.   For example, Saul became Paul after his
conversion to Christianity (Acts 9 verses 1 to 22,   and 13 verse 9). 
This symbolized the
  removal of the Hebrew Shin (S) and 
its replacement with the Hebrew Peh
  (P). Shin means tooth or fang of a 
serpent. Peh means mouth. After this
  change, Saul became Paul, the spokesman 
for Christ (Acts 13 verse 9). As
  Proverbs 22 verse 1 states, a good name 
is rather to be chosen than great riches.
  A further use of numbers in biblical 
language involves recounting the
  number of years a person lived, begat 
and died. These numbers did not refer
  to the person’s age in years, but rather 
to progress in spiritual attainment.
  The meaning of the name of the begotten 
indicated the development of a
  characteristic. Cycles also were indicated 
by the generations of descent. For
  example, from Adam to Noah there 
were 9 generations, and from Noah
  to Abraham there were also 9 
generations. That made Noah the ninth
  from Adam, and Abraham the ninth from Noah.
Adam had three sons—Cain (body),   Abel (soul) and Seth (replacement
for Abel to carry the spiritual light). In   a parallel situation, Noah also had
three sons: Shem (spirit),   Ham (physical nature) and Japhet (mental
nature). These names represented the growth   of humanity in consciousness
after 18 cycles of change.
  Abram meant father, while Abraham 
implied the added faith in God
  which he had come to realize. At 
99 years of age, Abraham begat
  Isaac, whose name meant joy in divine 
sonship. Isaac begat Jacob, whose 
  name meant illumination through 
unfolding soul. Jacob’s 12 sons
  (Genesis 35 verses 22 to 27) refer to the twelve 
types of consciousness represented by the 12   character types in the signs of the zodiac.
To study the whole Bible in this light   is to have a lifetime of fascinating
discovery. It can be said that Hebrew,   more than any other language, offers
us a great opportunity to study the   profound power and significance of
names. Here is a short list of keywords   for the numbers in biblical times:
0. Source before manifestation.
  1. God, the one immutable divine unity.
2. Duality; human, not divine.
  3. Attributes of 1 + 2 equals 3; 
union of divine and human qualities.
  4. The idea of solidity—steadfastness.
5. Humanity with its five developed senses.
  6. Equilibrium, fitness, peace.
7. Humanity’s septenary nature, cyclic fullness.
  8. Accumulation, strength, power, augmentation.
9. Consolidation, conservation, humaneness. 
  (The true mission of the 9 is to 
serve as a minister of God on earth.)
  10. God and humanity, 
father-mother-deity, completion.
  Modern numerology has grown partly 
from these concepts. The numbers
  and letters reflect meanings from 
the past coupled with many added
  spiritual interpretations. Meanings 
of our names today have deep
  significance and can be delineated 
letter by letter and number by number as
  we attain cycles of expression year by 
year in our own lives. These are fully
  explained in earlier chapters of this book.
0. GENESIS, which means “first cause,” relates   to the primordial source.
The first few verses of   Genesis pertain only to the one God, as divine
creator, who brings the world into existence out   of the void, or from the
unmanifest.
  1. LET THERE BE LIGHT (Genesis 
1 verse 3). The first spiritual
  emanation was light. If our soul 
continues to follow the light, we will
  get back to our source. 1 stands for 
a beginning, a new start and unity.
  2. AND GOD DIVIDED the light from 
the darkness (Genesis 1 verse 4).
  In 2 there is duality, day and night, 
heaven and earth, man and woman
  and all pairs of opposites. Thus the 
development of choice began between
  good and evil, true and false 
and positive and negative.
  Pythagoras says: 2 is the imperfect 
condition into which being falls,
  when it becomes detached from the 
monad, God. Manly Hall in The
  Mystical Christ, states: When the eyes 
of the both are opened, the sight of
  the soul is obscured.
3. THE FIRST TRINITY;   Adam and Eve and child. Thus 3 means
manifestation and expansion. Other trinities   survive in our world - 
body, soul, and spirit,   and the 3 divisions of mind—conscious,
subconscious and super-conscious.
  4. MANY BIBLICAL REFERENCES are 
taken from the cycles of the
  natural world. The symbology of 
the four seasons and four winds is
  embodied in Ezekiel’s vision of the 
4 living creatures: the face of a
  man, the face of a lion, the face of an 
ox and the face of an eagle (Ezekiel
  1 verses 5 to 14). These four relate 
to the four fixed signs of the zodiac.
  The four elements appear symbolically 
as the birds of the air, the fish of
  the sea, the fire of the Lord and 
the products of the earth. Genesis   2 verses 10 to 14 tells of the river out of 
Eden which parted into 4 heads. The rivers
  were named Pison, Gihon, Hiddekel 
and Euphrates. Metaphysically these
  names mean spirit (fire), breath (air), 
body (earth) and blood (water). These
  symbolize spirit, mind, body and 
soul which are the 4 principles that
  vitalize the material body during the earth life.
5. METAPHYSICALLY a river represents   vital force. Human beings
are the container of this force,   as a garden symbolizes the body. The
river of Genesis 2 verses 10 to 14,   described under number 4, 
represents the flow of
  humanity itself throughout the earth, 
which divides and divides until it
  covers all the earth. The 5 is the 
number of humanity with our five
  developed senses. The five senses are 
introduced in the early chapters of
  Genesis to indicate that the senses 
are essential in human creation; and
  therefore 5 is the number of humanity.
  Five plays an important part in the 
story of David and Goliath: and
  David chose five smooth stones out of 
the brook” and David took a stone 
  and smote the Philistine Goliath in 
the forehead. The stone sunk into the
  forehead and he fell to the ground, 
(First Samuel 17 verse 40). The 5 stones
  represent the spiritualization of 
David’s senses. David believed in the
  indwelling God of love and had learned 
to depend upon the spiritual power
  within himself. According to a mystical 
legend, when David touched the
  five stones they became as one stone, 
thus combining the total powers of
  his senses. The name Goliath means 
material power; thus the story is meant
  to demonstrate the power of the 
spiritual over the material.
  6. THE PREPARATIONS for the 
emergence of humanity had all been
  made during the 5 days of creation, 
so on the sixth day, God made
  human beings. In the image of God 
created He him, male and female
  created He them (Genesis 1 verse 27). 
So 6 is associated with generation,
  motherhood, fatherhood, domesticity 
and service. Home, family and
  children are the concerns of 6; 
human relationships and love abound.
  Moses, the first lawgiver, patterned 
the Ten Commandments after the
  Lord’s example of creating the 
universe in 6 days. 6 days shalt thou
  labor and do all thy work (Exodus 20 
verse 9). Therefore 6 is related to labor
  and service, as shown by the 
sixth sign of the zodiac, Virgo.
  Through love, the sixth sense is to 
be developed as people demonstrate
  their godliness. The Book of Ruth is 
keyed to the number 6 and to love. In
  Ruth 3 verse 15, Boaz gives Ruth 6 
measures of barley, symbolic of love and
  protection.
7. IS THE PRINCIPLE NUMBER   in the Bible; it is used innumerable
times (some say over 360) throughout   both Old and New Testaments. 
But the seventh day is the Sabbath   of the Lord thy God... 
For in six days the Lord   made heaven and earth... and rested the
seventh day; wherefore the Lord blessed the   seventh day and hallowed it
(Exodus 20:10-11).
  One of the most profound examples 
of the use of the symbolic number 7
  is related to the fall of Jericho in 
the Book of Joshua, 6 verses 1 to 20:
  And the Lord said unto Joshua: And 
ye shall compass the city... and
  go round about the city once. Thus 
shalt thou do six days... And the
  priests shall bear before the ark 
seven trumpets of rams’ horns: and
  the seventh day ye shall compass the 
city seven times, and the priests 
  shall blow with the trumpets. When 
they make a long blast with the
  ram’s horn and when ye hear the 
sound of the trumpet, all the people
  shall shout with a great shout, and 
the wall of the city shall fall down
  flat.
It becomes evident that the fall   of Jericho was not by warfare but rather
was by the principle of the 7. Victory   was achieved by means of the positive
vibration of sound which had been built   up to a tremendous power.
8. THE MYSTERY of the 8 is   that of eternal and continuous spiral
motion, which is constant throughout   the universe. The life force
currents sweep through the body in   the form of a figure 8, following the
cerebro-spinal and the sympathetic   nervous systems, like radiations of light.
This is why in deep meditation one sees a real   light within. The infinity symbol,
the horizontal 8, means as above,   so below. It is a symbol of power. In
Genesis 17 verse 10 the rite and covenant   of circumcision was to be performed on
the eighth day of a man child’s life.   This was considered one of the most
important covenants between God and humanity.
  9. IS THE ULTIMATE, containing the 
forces of all the other numbers. It
  stands for a complete cycle of 
growth. The nine generations from
  Adam to Noah and from Noah to Abraham 
indicate stages of growth and
  development. Noah was the ninth from 
Adam, and Abraham was the ninth
  from Noah.
When Abram received   his covenant from God and his new name,
Abraham, he was ninety and nine years   old (Genesis 17 verses 1 to 5).
Symbolically, his age reduces to a 9,   to indicate that this was a period of
time in which a spiritual cycle had   been completed. The addition of the
Hebrew Heh (H) to Abram’s name carries   a 9 vibration as well.
New Testament.
  In the first 4 books of the New 
Testament, Matthew, Mark, Luke and
  John, the writers express their Christian 
teachings mostly by allegory and
  parable. These are meant to be interpreted 
in various ways; some apply to
  the cosmic world as a whole, some to 
our solar system, some to the entire
  human race and some to individuals. 
Since a person is called the microcosm
  within the macrocosm, an individual 
represents, in miniature, all that is, was
  and will be.
As in the Old Testament,   symbology is used also to point out significant
hidden meanings in names and numbers. The art   and science of numerology
is one of the most obvious   methods employed, although a deep
understanding of the basic meanings of   numbers is necessary for a complete
unravelling of inner meanings.
  The New Testament describes the path 
of faith. Faith is the conscious
  acceptance of wisdom and love. When 
faith is strong the mind is at peace
  and the body is free of tension. Faith 
is a mystical conviction that God is
  presently a power within the individual. 
The instinct to believe is as strong
  as the instinct to survive, impelling one 
to search for a philosophy to sustain
  one’s hopes and desires on the journey 
through life. It is said that primitive
  people were mystics by instinct, and 
that modem people are mystics by
  intuition.
  In Christian teachings Christ is the 
revelation of the love and forgiveness
  of God. The Sermon on the Mount (Matthew 
5 verse 17) is the code of mystic
  Christianity, and it is in the faithful 
heart that the Sermon is understood.
  The 12 disciples of Jesus represent 
an extension of the twelve tribes
  of Israel. The 72 other disciples 
correspond to the six elders
  chosen from each of the original 12 tribes.
The Pythagorean dodecahedron (a twelve-sided   symmetrical figure
which can be compared to   the 12 lines of the Divine Triangle)
represents the universe as related to   humanity. This indicates that the
individual has within himself the   potential of the 12 powers as they
relate to the inherent attributes   within the 12 signs of the zodiac. The
search for knowledge is motivated by the   desire to understand the self in
relation to God.
  The New Testament writers symbolically 
applied all the basic numbers to
  express their ideas, but made more 
references to specific numbers relating
  to the seven-fold human body, to the 
divine potential of the human mind
  and soul and to spiritual destiny. Many 
years elapsed between the writing of
  the Old and New Testaments which 
allowed time for much expansion of
  human consciousness. As a result, 
many more meanings for the numbers
  had accrued. The use of symbolism 
had grown and was liberally employed
  as a means of revelation.
1 IS THE ZERO made more manifest;   it is the self, independence and
unity. In the beginning was the Word;   and the Word was God (John
1 verse 1). 1 is the   basis or cause of a beginning; 
it is a start, a creative idea for expression.
  2 ENCOMPASSES ALL PAIRS of 
opposites: male and female, spirit
  and matter, heaven and hell. No 
man can serve two masters; ye
  cannot serve God and Mammon (Matthew 
6 verse 24). There is always a choice
  to be made between the pairs of 
opposites; thus we are warned that in
  duality there is danger. A house 
divided against itself shall not stand 
  (Matthew 12 verse 25). But, if two agree, 
it shall be done (Matthew 18 verse 19).
  3 SYMBOLIZES THE TRINITY, triad 
and trine; the 3 dimensions.
  In a larger sense, the 3 stands 
for multiplication and growth.
  Three of the disciples went with 
Jesus into the garden of Gethsemane.
  They were Peter, James and John; these 
3 stand for light, life and love.
  And Jesus went apart and prayed 3 
times... each time He returned to
  find them asleep. The inner meaning is 
that Jesus felt that light, life and
  love were forsaking Him, as He said in 
His prayer: Father, let this cup pass
  from me; nevertheless, Thy will be done (Matthew 
26 verses 37 to 45; Mark 14 verses 32 to 41).
  Jesus asked Peter 3 times: Lovest thou 
me? (John 21 verses 15 to 17). The
  three inquiries refer to love on 
the 3 planes of consciousness - the
  conscious mind, the subconscious mind 
and the super-conscious mind. If
  two or three are gathered together in 
my name, there am I in the midst of
  them (Matthew 18 verse 20). This also 
refers to the 3 parts of the mind, 
  declaring that if all agree, 
the Christ power will prevail.
  The story of Jesus is a story of 
3’s. He rose after 3 days and he was
  denied thrice by Peter. The fact 
that Jesus was crucified between two
  thieves is symbolic of the divided 
system of belief which has stolen many
  of the true teachings. Christ sat down 
with the twelve, a higher vibration of
  3. Judas bargained for 30 pieces 
of silver, again a vibration of 3.
  4 STANDS FOR LAW and order, 
measurement, the physical and
  material realms, reason, logic, the 
square and the cross. Whenever a
  number is made up of straight lines, 
it symbolizes the divine principle;
  therefore the 4 and the 7 are called 
sacred numbers. The symbols are the 
  square and the cross. The cross is 
always a sacred symbol wherever found.
  Traditionally, the equal-armed cross 
represented man. With the coming of
  Christ, the horizontal line of the cross 
was raised from the umbilical center
  to the heart center. It is not necessarily 
a Christian symbol; other spiritual
  leaders have died on the cross such 
as Krishna of India, Thamus of Syria,
  Hesus of the Druids, Mithra of 
Persia and Quexalcotl of Mexico.
  And He was there in the wilderness 
forty days tempted by Satan; and
  was with the wild beasts, and the angels 
ministered unto him (Mark 1 verse 13).
  40 is used in a Scripture to indicate a 
completed cycle of retreat from things
  of the world in preparation for 
something better to follow.
  On the morning of the fourth day after 
he died, Lazarus (meaning lack of
  spiritual understanding) lay in the 
tomb, bound hand and foot, with grave
  clothes wound around him. The fourth 
dawning day is when spiritual
  understanding shall release us from 
the grave of materialism and bring
  awakening to the one light.
At the fourth watch, just as gray   dawn was breaking, they beheld one
walking on the water (Matthew   14 verse 25). This refers metaphorically to the
dawning of Aquarian Age, the age of community.
  5 STANDS FOR MEDIATION, 
understanding and judgment. The
  ancients represented the world by 
the number 5, the explanation being
  that in 5 are represented the four elements 
earth, water, fire and air, plus the
  fifth essence, ether or spirit. Five 
became the number of humanity with the
  five developed senses. It is the great 
work of human beings to gain control
  over the five senses, after which 
the sixth sense, intuition develops.
  The five wounds of Christ symbolize 
the suffering endured while in the
  flesh, which leads us to turn to God. 
In the parable of the five wise and the
  five foolish virgins (Matthew 25 verse 
3), they that were foolish took their
  lamps and took no oil with them. But 
the wise took oil in their vessels with
  their lamps. The oil relates to the 
anointed, or those who had light.
  Human beings can choose the light 
or reject it by their actions.
  Interestingly, the word oil is a 
9-powered word which means a completed
  cycle of attainment.
6 IS THE NUMBER OF BALANCE,   harmony, cooperation, marriage,
connubiality and beauty. And   there were set there 6 water pots of
stone (John 2 verse 6) for the wedding   feast. A wedding represents love (as does 
the number 6) at its most blissful state   in earthly consciousness. The 6
expresses universal love, for out of   the sorrows of personal love, the soul
awakens to the higher life which leads   to illumination or adept ship. Jesus’s
first miracle changed six pots of water to wine.
  7 IS THE NUMBER OF REST, cessation 
but not ceasing, safety, and
  the full measure of the triad and the quaternary.
One of the greatest heritages from the Christian   Scriptures is the sevenfold 
path of the Lord’s prayer.   The seven statements express the triad and
the quaternary (Matthew 6 verses 9 to 13):
  1. Our Father which art in heaven,
2. Hallowed be Thy Name.
  3. Thy kingdom come, Thy will be 
done, on earth as it is in heaven.
  4. Give us this day our daily bread, and
5. Forgive us our debts as   we forgive our debtors.
6. Lead us not into temptation,
  7. But deliver us from evil.
The final statement (“For Thine   is the kingdom, and the power and the
glory, forever”) was added much later to   symbolize return to the heavenly
state.
  8 STANDS FOR INVOLUTION AND 
EVOLUTION, for cycles of ebb
  and flow, infinity, rhythm, 
advancement, strength and confidence.
  The 8 is not a primary number in the 
New Testament. Rather, we find the
  8 figures heavily in the eight-fold 
path of the Buddha and in occult
  literature.
9 REFERS TO COMPLETION,   attainment, fulfillment, regeneration
and revelation. Many words in the   Bible are used for their symbolic
meanings and teachings mystically   concealed. Bread and wine are usually
linked together. Bread is a 3-powered word;   wine is a 6-powered word;
together they form a symbol   of the 9-power of regeneration. Thus the
serving of bread and wine means that one   is to partake of a regenerative
process when taking communion.
  In the Book of Revelation there are 
two numbers whose meanings have
  caused much discussion. These two 
numbers, the 666 and the 144,000 both
  vibrate to a 9. The 144,000 who were 
sealed as members of the Tribes of
  Israel refers to developed or saved 
humanity. The seal refers to the
  protective sign in their foreheads 
(Revelations 9 verse 4). The 666, described
  as the number of the beast (Revelations 
13 verse 18), refers to humanity
  functioning at the materialistic 
unregenerated level. Thus these two
  numbers mystically refer to the evolution 
of humanity, either as lost (666)
  or saved (144,000).
Humanity, symbolically called   the hand of God, demonstrates the same
principle. Hand is a 9-powered word   and refers to humanity as one of God’s
helpers in bringing forth His Kingdom.
  The nine statements of blessing in 
the Sermon on the Mount, which show
  a completed cycle, represent the 
essence of the New Testament teaching
  that the greatest of all power is love. 
Love is a 9-powered word. He that
  loveth not knoweth not God, for God is 
love (First John 4 verse 8). God is love,
  and he that dwelleth in love, dwelleth 
in God, and God in him (First John
  4 verse 16). In the ninth hour - the hour 
of prayer - Christ on the cross said,   “It is finished” (John 19 verse 30).
The numbers 12 and 13 hold a special place   in both the Old and New
Testaments.
  12. THERE WERE 12 Tribes of Israel 
who were the sons of Jacob.
  When Jacob gave his blessing to his 
twelve sons, he was referring not only
  to twelve individuals, but to the 
development of 12 attributes to be
  awakened in the human soul. These 
paralleled the 12 characteristics of
  the 12 signs of the zodiac (Genesis 49 
verses 1 to 28). The work of these 12
  sons dominated most of the Old 
Testament. Each tribe expressed the
  qualities of one sign of the zodiac 
and responded to a certain number. No
  tribe was wholly good or bad. These 
12 signs and their corresponding
  numbers are operative in the lives 
of every individual, for each person
  indeed is a miniature universe.
  Jesus chose to have twelve apostles. 
These also relate in character to the
  twelve signs of the zodiac to make a 
complete gathering of types of people
  in the inner circle of followers of Jesus. 
Thus the vibrational force under the
  number 12 belongs to the developed 
soul who has accumulated unusual
  inner strength through many 
and varied experiences.
  13 IS A NUMBER of special significance. 
Note that there were twelve
  apostles, but Jesus, the Christ, made a 
thirteenth member at the last supper.
  12 is the number of solar months in the 
year, but 13 is the number of lunar
  months. While the solar vibrations are 
positive and creative in type, the lunar
  vibrations are negative and receptive in type. 
Each, as a reflection of God,   is equally important.
13 means either death   through degeneration, or life and attainment
through regeneration. There are no halfway   measures in 13; it requires all
or nothing. If 13 is your number,   face it and win!
“Choose ye this day whom   ye will serve” (Joshua 24 verse 15). In
Deuteronomy 30 verse 16, Moses said:   “See, I have set before thee this day life
and good - or death and evil - therefore choose   life, and both thou and thy
seed shall live.”
  Incarnation in the flesh represents 
the soul’s burial in matter, where it
  loses the power it originally had in 
the ethereal realm where it was created
  to be a companion to God. Eating of 
the Tree of Knowledge of Good and
  Evil leads to spiritual, not physical, 
death. When the soul turns from God to
  self it figuratively dies. We wander 
about on earth in the flesh, as prodigal
  sons and daughters, victims of spiritual 
amnesia. The prodigal, even as you
  and I, went from the father’s home of 
his own free will; the father did not
  send him.
Both the Old and the New   Testaments contain numerous instances of the
use of numerological symbols in the form of   parable and allegory. Because
every number and letter has   a dual meaning, hidden messages are
discernible to readers who understand the   number-letter codes employed in
biblical times.
  In addition, there are 3 levels 
of meaning or knowledge which the
  reader can acquire. The first level 
comes through the conscious mind and
  applies to the material or physical 
world. The second level is absorbed
  through the subconscious mind and is 
acquired by means of parables and
  symbols. The third level deals with 
revelations on the super-conscious plane
  of thought and affirms that we must 
rediscover who we are from within.
  The Bible is the story of humanity 
and its generations (growth and
  attainment), of its degeneration (the 
prodigal who left his father’s house
  forgetful of his divinity) and of its 
regeneration through the possible path of
  return to the consciousness within 
which proclaims: “Thy Will be done.”
  PART 2: DOUBLE-DIGIT DELINEATIONS.
  YOUR WAY OF SUCCESS and 
happiness is hidden in your name
  and birthdate, as well as the ways 
to overcome the difficulties found
  there. These paths must be hunted 
out, understood and explained when
  analyzing a number chart, because 
the way to overcome obstacles lies
  alongside the indicators of success and 
happiness. It is always a question of
  action and reaction, whether the positive 
or the negative choice is taken.
  When you understand that you have 
choices, and you know what they are,
  you can conduct your life in such a 
way as to attain any goal you set for
  yourself. It is important that you 
choose a goal and then examine the way
  your cosmic gifts have prepared 
you for its achievement.
  The meanings of the single digits are 
explicit; when the single digits are
  combined to form the double digits, 
they provide a more complete picture
  of how you will express your talents. 
The double digits show patterns of
  experience; they indicate destiny and 
point the way to success. These facets
  of your character cannot be discovered 
in detail except by careful
  consideration of the double numbers 
produced by your name and birthdate.
  This is primarily a book on numerology, 
but since we use the double
  digits up through 78, which is the number 
of cards in the Tarot deck, we are
  including brief excerpts of the Tarot 
philosophy as a further dimension in
  understanding the numbers. The Tarot 
keys symbolize ways of determining
  the strengths and weaknesses 
of dynamic life forces.
  Rich in symbolism, the Tarot has 
from ancient times been used to help
  people understand the laws of the 
universe and our relation to these laws.
  The 22 keys of the Major Arcana 
relate a story of our lives, of how
  we are constituted and what our 
possibilities are. If we all studied and
  followed these laws, our lives would 
improve in consciousness and inner
  security. The 56 minor keys explain 
the many phases of human life
  and symbolize ways to face our dilemmas.
  The Tarot also relates to areas of the 
zodiac, and for those students who
  wish to plumb the depths of astrology, 
we have included in the delineations
  the astrological assignments for 
each of the 78 numbers. In fact,
  the sciences of numerology, astrology 
and the Tarot coincide and confirm
  each other so perfectly that we have 
found it almost impossible to analyze a
  chart of any kind without somehow 
including concepts from each science to
  enhance our understanding of the chart. 
In their most exalted use, these
  three sciences will synthesize the 
knowledge contained in their rich
  symbolism, so that we may apply it in 
our lives toward understanding our
  relationship with God.
How to Read Your Number.
  Suppose your number is 32 or 5: read 
the delineation for the double number
  first, then read the delineation for the 
single digit that it reduces to. Keep in
  mind that it is the 2 working through 
the 3 to achieve the base number 5,
  which is synthesized in the 32 or 5 delineation. 
A 41 or 5 is an entirely different 5
  vibration, with a 1 working through 
a 4 to achieve the base number 5.
  A number always has the same meaning, 
no matter where it appears in
  your chart, but the expression of its 
consciousness is determined by its
  position as your Soul, Outer Personality, 
Path of Destiny or Life Lesson
  Number. Therefore it is important 
to consider where the number is
  operating. If the vibration is your 
Soul Number, then you already possess
  those qualities; however, if it is 
your Life Lesson Number, you do not
  possess these qualities but 
are here to learn them.
  The numbers on the lines of the blueprint 
represent energies that will be
  activated at the time indicated. The 
same is true of the personal year
  number, the period number and the 
personal months. Realize that the
  numbers indicate an energy which, when 
activated by your life pattern, will
  be molded into the space in which you 
find it. Work with the number in that
  space and use it for your fullest realization.
  If the number is your Soul Number, 
this is what you already are.
  If it is your Outer Personality 
Number, this is how others see you.
  If it is your Path of Destiny 
Number, this is what you must do.
  If it is your Life Lesson Number, 
this is what you must leant.
  If the base number of the vibration 
you are working under matches the
  base number of one of your 4 personal 
numbers, then read your personal
  number as well as the variation. For 
example, if one of your personal
  numbers is a 37 or 1, and you are 
temporarily under a 28 or 1, read both
  numbers.
ONE: THE MAJOR ARCANA.
  1 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER 
VIBRATION: You are independent!
  You dislike restraint of any kind 
and need to feel free from all
  encumbrances, so that your strong 
individuality may be expressed. You are
  here to build your own unique 
personality, which you can do only by
  exercising your will. As a result, you 
become a dominant force in any group
  to which you belong.
Recognizing that you are a natural leader,   other people will look to you
for guidance and strength,   so you will probably be at the head of your
organization, as a business executive,   supervisor or club president.
You need to be first and best   at whatever you do. Since you have a
pioneering instinct, you are usually first,   and because you have the courage
to assert yourself, you are often the best.
  You will be a loner in some respects, 
because your assertiveness tends to
  alienate all but emotionally secure 
or dependent types. You will learn to
  make your own decisions and stand 
by them, regardless of what others
  think. Your leadership qualities set 
you apart and make you acutely aware
  of the “weight of those splendid chains;” 
this is the responsibility borne by
  those in charge. You will meet many 
new and different kinds of people in
  your lifetime, because you are 
always seeking new experiences and
  initiating new schemes.
If you are a negative 1,   you have an overpowering ego, which makes you
arrogant, selfish and uncaring. You have no   feeling for others and no regard
for another person’s point of view.   Your stubbornness in pursuing your own
path in the face of contrary evidence sets   up a series of events that will lead
to failure and loneliness.
  If you are a positive 1, and 
intellectually developed, you are quite
  original. Your keen, penetrating mind 
seeks many lines of expression, and
  your talents can manifest if you work 
as an inventor, designer or leader in
  any creative field. Your inventiveness 
allows you to solve problems
  creatively and constructively. This 
process will make you a skillful
  individual who expresses definite 
views positively. You are the pioneer
  setting out into the wilderness 
to carve a new life for yourself.
  1 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
New beginnings, decisions,
  independence. The period you are now 
entering is a time to begin again, to
  make a new start. You have the ability 
to separate yourself from your
  environment and choose the path you 
want to take. You may be required to
  stand alone, to think for yourself and 
to learn independence. The vibrations
  of 1 reveal the powers within, and 
now you must take the reins and
  determine your future course. If you 
have depended upon others in the past,
  you will realize that you can no longer do so.
You should set long-range goals and begin   taking steps to attain them.
Later, when you look back,   you will realize that the events of this period
were the foundation stones of your new life.
  Set out to develop your talents and 
skills. Promote your ideas, believe in
  yourself and don’t take “no” for 
an answer. Your most important
  experiences now will be those that 
you initiate; therefore, you must be
  decisive and firm. Great strength and 
self-control are required. If you fix
  your attention on a goal, you will attain 
it, because your consciousness has
  become an open channel of communication 
between your subconscious and
  your super-conscious. The secret 
is concentration. Miracles can be
  performed now, because you have control 
over all material affairs. Channel
  your thoughts into fertile areas 
where your mind’s energies can set up
  patterns that can be transmitted to 
subliminal levels. The resulting
  subconscious reactions will bring about 
the desired results. Under a 1, you
  should be keenly aware that your 
results will be qualified by your real
  desires.
A negative use of number 1   energies can set you on a headstrong course
where you insist on having your own way,   regardless of the consequences.
Give your individuality free rein,   but guide it wisely.
Under this influence,   don’t be ruled by impulsiveness. Make your own
plans because equal partnerships should   be avoided now. Be selective in
choosing friends and avoid superficial   relationships. You may meet one new
person who will figure   importantly in your future.
Experiment with the new and untried.   Remain independent and decisive,
and above all, have the courage   to act on your dreams.
TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 1. The   Magician. The Magician represents the
conscious mind, which by concentration   and single-minded attention to a
specific idea or goal can draw upon   the forces from above. In this way the
idea or goal will take form and become   a reality in the material world.
By his posture, the central figure   clearly indicates that he is merely a
channel through which the life force   flows. The identical ends of his wand
graphically represent the axiom as above,   so below. The horizontal figure 8
symbolizes the Holy Spirit, dominion,   strength and infinity.
Since 
  a horizontal line is the ancient symbol 
for matter, this glyph represents the
  conscious mind’s control over earthly 
things when that mind directs the life
  energy through fixed attention 
upon a specific goal.
  The Magician’s undergarment, symbolizing 
the light of perfect wisdom,
  is encircled by the serpent of eternity 
biting its own tail. The red outer
  garment of passion and desire, which 
has no binding, may be slipped on and
  off at will; thus the conscious 
mind has perfect control.
  The garden is the subconscious mind 
cultivated by attention from the
  conscious mind. Red roses represent 
desires, while lilies represent purified 
  thought untinged by desire. Every 
moment of our waking consciousness is
  motivated and conditioned by some kind 
of desire, which must be elevated
  to a higher plane.
The Magician has at his   disposal all the elements and their human
counterparts: the cup, indicating water   and the imagination; the sword,
indicating air and the intellect;   the pentacle, earth and the body; and the
wand, fire and will. These 4 objects represent   the letters IHVH, which is
the Hebrew word for God,   and the letters INRI (Iesus Nazarenus Rex
Iudaeorum) which appear on the Christian   cross. At this point, the God
energy may be translated into the world   of matter to bring about perfect
manifestation and harmony.
  ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Mars 
(and Mercury). The planet Mercury is 
  assigned to the Magician, 
and Mars is assigned to the
  number 1. These two energies must be 
blended in order for the Magician to
  complete his task.
Mars, the red planet, supplies   the fiery energy and the desire to create.
Mercury is the mind, the channel through   which the desire passes and the
tool with which the concentration   is enacted. Without the drive to
accomplish, the mind is idle and useless;   it needs the demanding, propelling
force of Mars to spur it on to   greater achievements.
When Mercury and Mars act   in unison, the number 1 individual draws
upon an endless source of creativity and   courage. He has the vision to see
what can be done, and the strength   and fortitude to do it.
2 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER   VIBRATION: The number 2 suggests
more than one, and you, as a 2,   are acutely conscious of others as
opposed to yourself. Since you are   socially aware of people, you tend to
gather ideas and experience through   others, so you would be a good
diplomat, go-between, mediator   or peacemaker. Your best service is through
cooperation, for your mild and gentle nature   is appreciated and welcomed
by all sides.
  You are not a forceful individual and 
you often prefer to stay quietly in
  the background. Because you are extremely 
aware of pairs of opposites, you
  find choices difficult. By remaining 
unobtrusive and discreet, you
  sometimes avoid making decisions. This 
quality could be a liability, but you 
  can make it an asset by becoming an 
arbitrator. Your ability to see both
  sides of a situation, coupled with your 
sincerity, is a winning combination.
  The number 2 also implies reflection 
and symmetry. Your imaginative
  powers are increased because you can 
see hidden aspects of beauty in life.
  Your ability to detach yourself and see 
separateness gives your creative and
  inventive potentials room to grow. When 
we look out into the world, we see
  what is in front and to the sides; we 
cannot see behind us without turning
  around. However, you seem to look into 
reality as in a mirror, seeing every
  detail, even those behind you which 
can be seen only with the mirror. You
  possess the all-seeing eye.
If you are a negative 2, you lack self-confidence,   and are therefore
indecisive and afraid to make   decisions. You can be deceitful or two-faced.
You are oversensitive and easily depressed if   your surroundings are
unhappy.
  If you are a positive 2, you can be 
of great service to others because of
  your ability to settle situations 
amicably, and you may well become the
  power behind the throne.
2 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION:   Gestation, cooperation, diplomacy,
self-knowledge. You are in a gestation   period in which you must not assert
yourself but rather must await results.   It is time to collect and assimilate the
experiences of the past, giving them time to   grow slowly. This is a secretive
period in which your affairs,   situations and relationships are operating
under an element of the unknown. You may   not be aware of all the
circumstances surrounding   a particular situation, which may be in a
fluctuating state. Therefore, you must maintain   balance and equilibrium.
Remain poised.
  There may be meetings, conversation 
and comings and goings. You
  should be careful of what you say about 
your hopes and ambitions, for your
  words could be misconstrued by 
others, either unconsciously or
  deliberately. Use diplomacy in all 
your dealings and be cautious about
  whom you talk with and whom you put 
your confidence in. Carelessness
  and tactlessness can cause problems in 
relationships, which could result in
  angry confrontations and deceptive acts.
Be patient, considerate, tactful and   receptive to other people’s ideas.
Practice conciliation but not at the   expense of your integrity. This is a
passive, receptive time in which to   reflect and listen to the voice of your 
subconscious mind, which collects and   files every piece of information it
encounters. The subconscious is now   potentially producing seeds that will
cause either strife, dissension,   disagreements and partings, or peace,
cooperation, beauty and coming together.
  If you exercise the positive side, 
you will have warm ties with other
  people. You can be a good mediator, 
go-between or agent for peace. This is
  a good vibration for love affairs, but 
be careful because you are emotionally
  vulnerable. Under a 2, love affairs 
can come and go, so maintain that
  balance.
The future may seem unclear   during this period, because hidden energies
are working that will surface later. Since   choices are difficult under a 2, it is
wiser to postpone important moves until   your mind is more decisive. This is
not a particularly good time for business   ventures, again because of your
indecisiveness.
  Memories are a prime motivation 
for your actions now. Don’t become
  trapped in unhappy memories or 
unconscious past conditionings. Instead
  use the stored wisdom from your past 
experiences to resolve snags in a
  partnership, mediation or cooperative 
effort. We communicate with others
  through the subconscious. Memories 
stored in that subconscious determine
  our response to conditions, situations 
and people. Examine your reactions to
  others now, for this period 
tests your ability to coexist.
  Telepathic communication may be 
intense, as you have a subconscious
  knowledge of the real meaning behind 
events that are mysterious to your
  conscious mind. Therefore, you must 
tune in to what is formulating in your
  mind during this time, otherwise, you 
will remain in the dark. Number 2 is a
  two-way street, with ideas flowing between 
the inner self and the outer self.
  A negative use of 2 makes you act 
petty about trivial matters. You react
  emotionally to confrontations, 
withdrawing rather than trying to settle
  problems peaceably. Your emotions 
undermine your self-confidence and
  upset your equilibrium.
This is a perfect time for creative   people such as artists, composers,
inventors and mystics to expand   their consciousness through various
techniques, because 2 contains latent   creative powers. It is a waiting period
in which the seeds of creativity are   planted in the subconscious to begin the
process of growth and expansion. This is   also a period of wisdom in which
you can see the true I AM of self   by reflecting on your inner being.
You should remain passive and receptive   to the present active creative
forces, without vacillating or   being oversensitive or withdrawn. Calm,
silent contemplation of the creative   potential within will help you produce
exquisitely beautiful art forms, innovative   ideas and unique solutions to
everyday problems.
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 2 The High 
Priestess. The High Priestess
  symbolizes the subconscious mind, the receptive, 
reproductive and form building power within the   human organism. The curtain behind the figure
connects the two pillars of light and darkness.   As the balancing power
between pairs of opposites,   she has no preference for either and merely
awaits the concentrated effort of   the conscious mind. The cup-shaped
crescent Moon depicts the receptiveness   and retentiveness of the
subconscious mind.
  All memory, universal and personal, 
is recorded on the High Priestess’s
  scroll, which is partially hidden because 
all is not yet known; God has more
  to reveal. The cubic stone of truth 
upon which she sits represents the
  principles of order on which the 
subconscious must function for perfect
  fulfillment. The white cross 
represents the proper use of the four
  implements on the Magician’s table. 
The conscious mind formulates ideas
  which the subconscious accepts as 
suggestions and then sets about to make
  them realities in an orderly, 
progressive fashion.
  The High Priestess is the connecting 
link to the subconscious through
  which we must pass in order to use our 
conscious potential, thus calling into
  play the powers of the 
Magician, the conscious mind.
  ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: 
Vulcan (and the Moon). The
  High Priestess, key 2 of Tarot, (ruled 
by the Moon), and number 2, (ruled
  by Vulcan), join forces in bringing 
about gestation. (Vulcan is the
  blacksmith of the gods, the keeper 
of the flame and fireside. Many
  astrologers feel that the planet Vulcan 
is the rightful ruler of Virgo.) After
  an idea has been sown by the number 1 
vibration, it must find a warm dark
  place where it can be properly nurtured, 
away from the light and clamor of
  the outer world. The idea seeks refuge 
in the depths of the Moon-ruled
  subconscious, where it waits to be fed 
by the imagination. Like Vulcan, this
  formation process is not seen, but 
it continues, fed by the fire of
  determination.
Vulcan, the mythological   tender of fire, aids the nurturing
and protecting influences by making   sure that the fire or desire to bring
forth this seed does not flicker and die.
  A number 2 individual has a quiet 
receptive personality, in which the
  seeds of cooperation, patience and 
prudence are nurtured. These seeds will
  eventually manifest in useful products 
and objects of beauty that will
  benefit the whole world.
3 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION:   3 is the number of the
performing arts, and you are   a performer. You love life, the joy of
social contacts, entertainment and new   experiences. Your bright active
nature radiates like the Sun to   warm the lives of others, and your ease with
people draws them to you like a magnet. You   will always have many
admirers.
  You are an extremely expressive 
person, and you should develop your
  skill with words and cultivate the art 
of conversation. You can influence
  others through your ability to 
communicate about life in a grandiose
  fashion. Develop and put to work 
your talents for entertaining and
  communicating. You could do well as a 
teacher, artist, lawyer, judge, writer,
  nurse, pastor or priest.
Travel will probably be an   important part of your life, because you need
to become involved in many experiences and   investigate new opportunities.
Your varied interests make your   thinking broad and all-encompassing.
You like to be on stage, to entertain   and live the good life. Recognition is
important to you, for you need to   know you are appreciated. You like to
wear nice clothes, and are or should be   aware of your appearance, because
performing depends on how you   look and project yourself.
A negative 3 does everything in   a big way: eating, drinking, loving and
living. You can be too self-indulgent,   and extravagance could be your
downfall. You tend to overact and   exaggerate situations, turning mole-hill
problems into mountains. Friendships   will then be superficial. You may try
to avoid responsibility and live just for   the moment. Too much talk may
make you a gossip.
  As a 3, you should learn not to spread 
yourself too thin, which is an easy
  trap to fall into, with your many talents 
and interests. You should master at
  least one talent.
As a positive 3, you will be very   lucky in speculative matters, investing,
gambling and taking chances in   general. You will have many lucky
opportunities through your friends,   who are most eager to assist you in
every way. Your luck is derived   from your positive, outgoing attitude,
which induces people to want to help you.
  You should avoid occupations that keep 
you confined in close quarters or
  demand long hours of isolation, 
because you need to move around and
  express yourself in order to do 
your best work and be happy.
  3 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Growth, 
travel, entertainment, self-expression. 
  This is usually a happy time, 
during which previous difficulties
  are overcome and resolved. You are 
bursting with the joy of living; and
  your optimistic outlook makes you want 
to express yourself socially and to
  indulge your desires. Many events 
that occur now will add to your
  enthusiasm. You will definitely acquire 
money during this cycle. You may
  receive a raise at work, a long-lost 
relative might leave you an inheritance,
  or you might win a sweepstakes. 
Luck seems to be on your side, but
  remember that luck is merely the 
outward manifestation of your present
  positive attitude. You are 
creating your own luck.
  There is growth and expansion in all 
areas of your life at this time. For
  some, this may mean marriage or the birth 
of children. For others, birth will
  occur in the creative arts or in mind 
expansion. Recognition of your talents
  in writing, painting, sculpting or acting 
is possible, so now is the time to
  write the article, paint the picture 
or present the project you’ve been
  thinking about for so long. Publication 
and recognition from authorities
  come under a 3. Study a foreign 
language, take elocution lessons or any
  other available means to develop 
your expressive capabilities.
  Spend time and money on your personal 
appearance, because how others
  see you is extremely important now. 
You might attend a weight-reducing
  course or yoga class to reshape and firm 
your body. Pay particular attention
  to the way you dress, and go through 
your wardrobe, replacing worn and
  outdated clothes. You will probably 
find yourself on a buying spree.
  Business mixes well with pleasure now, 
so involve yourself in the social
  aspects of living. The people you meet 
will be impressed with your manner
  and articulateness, and some of them will 
be in a position to aid your career.
  Give parties, join groups, attend 
seminars and generally become involved in
  meeting and being with other people.
  Don’t make any commitments now 
that will bind and encumber you in
  any way. You need freedom and time to 
cultivate personal self-expression.
  If you’ve always wanted to travel, 
this may be your opportunity. Long
  distance travel comes under a 3, so 
you may have the chance to expand
  through contact with other 
cultures or ways of life.
  You will be center-stage now, so enjoy 
it, bask in the warmth of others’
  attention and radiate the joy you feel 
to enhance the lives of those you
  touch.
Listen to your dreams, for   they can bring precognitive messages and alert
you to potential future opportunities. This is a   productive period in all areas
of your life.
  The negative aspects of a 3 lead 
to scattering your energies and
  over-indulging in all phases of living. 
Talking too much can lead to gossip
  and deceit. Extravagance leads to 
dissipation. Taking unnecessary risks
  leads to losses. Jealousy produces 
loneliness. Overeating, excess drinking
  and indiscriminate drug consumption 
can have disastrous results. Be aware
  that exhaustion of the valuable resources 
of this period causes dissipation
  and turns potentially fertile soil to wasteland.
There is an ancient saying: “Beware of   your wishes, for you will surely
get them.” If you desire anything   strongly enough, that desire will surely
come to pass. And once it is a reality,   you may decide you really didn’t
want it after all.
  During this time, your desires can 
become a reality, so begin now to
  screen your wishes. Be certain that 
what you desire is right and good for
  you and for all others concerned, and 
then enjoy this happy and productive
  period.
TAROT SYMBOLISM:   Key 3. The Empress. The Empress is also an
aspect of the subconscious mind. While the   High Priestess, number 2, is
memory, in number 3 we find   the subconscious response to that memory
which produces growth through the imagination.
  In contrast to the virginal High 
Priestess, the Empress appears pregnant,
  as does the landscape around her. The 
Empress produces. She is the great
  mother surrounded by love, beauty and 
growth. The conscious mind, key 1,
  cannot produce; the subconscious mind, 
key 2, cannot reason; it takes a
  combination of 1 and 2 to 
produce manifestation, or key 3.
  The trees, dress and wheat symbolize 
the ripening that takes place in the
  subconscious mind. The stream is 
the life stream, the stream of
  consciousness. Falling into the pool, 
it represents the union of the sexes or
  the union of the conscious and 
subconscious minds. Her yellow hair,
  symbolizing the super-conscious mind, 
is tied by green leaves, or bound
  sunlight, as the leaves have captured 
the sun’s rays. The twelve stars on her
  crown are the twelve zodiacal signs or 
the twelve months, thus representing
  time itself. In the same vein, it 
takes time to bring our desires into
  manifestation.
Her scepter represents her dominion   over the world of creation through
love, the Venus glyph. She is the   epitome of creation and abundance,
reminding us of the biblical passage,   “And there appeared a great wonder in
the heavens; a woman clothed with the Sun,   and the Moon under feet, and
upon her head a crown of twelve stars.   And she being with child cried,
travailing in birth...”   (Revelations 12 verses 1 and 2). 
Older versions of the Empress
  showed her with the crescent 
Moon beneath her feet.
  ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: 
Jupiter (and Venus). From the
  foregoing delineations of number 3 
(Jupiter) and key 3 (the Empress,
  Venus), you can see how the attributes 
of Venus and Jupiter work in
  conjunction to bring about productivity. 
Venus seeks to bring harmony and
  beauty into whatever environment she 
appears. Her keen sense of justice
  manifests through a fine symmetry, 
and her loving nature seeks to make
  others as well as herself comfortable.
When Venus unites with Jupiter,   who desires to expand services for
humanity through orderly growth,   an extremely productive and fertile
situation results. This productivity   is distinctly recognizable in number 3
individuals. They are extremely sociable   and indulge not only themselves
but also their family and friends.   They work to bring about social harmony
by using their very expressive and creative   talents in such fields as acting,
social work, counseling and the   law. Their honesty, generosity and affability
make them extremely popular with almost everyone.
  4 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER 
VIBRATION: Symbolically, the
  number 4 and the four-sided square 
are synonymous. As a child, you
  spent time in a square crib and 
playpen. As you grew older, you drew
  pictures of a square house in which 
you and your family lived. You played
  with square blocks and most likely 
romped in a square yard. Although the
  perimeters of your world grew as you 
matured, still the boundaries defined
  the extent to which you could expand. 
Because these boundaries protected
  you from harm, the square became 
imbedded in your subconscious as a
  symbol of security and structure, a 
comfortable, productive and organized
  system of existence.
The earth was formed on the   fourth day of Creation; therefore,
symbolically, all earthly things   come under a 4. As the recipient of this
vibration, you are a very creative builder,   an individual who puts form and
structure into life. You build   tangible objects because you need to see
visible results from your efforts. Carpenters,   masons, draftsmen and all the
building trades come under a 4.
  You are a good worker. An employer 
can rely upon your stability,
  steadiness, honesty and sense of 
responsibility. You are the salt of the earth
  type who realizes the importance of a 
sound foundation upon which to build
  the future. By upholding the traditions 
of the past you reinforce your sense
  of security in the present and the future.
Your naturally cautious, industrious   nature makes you a saver. You are a
patient planner, and you insist that your   finances be organized. Because of
this predilection toward thrift,   practicality and wise handling of finances,
you would be a good banker or financier.
  Law, order and regulation are 
keywords for a 4. You have an inborn
  respect for supervision and control. 
Many 4’s work in government or law,
  the foundations of society. Such occupations 
require in-sight and the ability
  to examine situations and make judgments 
based upon reason, all of which
  you, as a 4, are extremely capable of doing.
Because a 4’s insight is based on sound   reasoning, this number produces
the inventor who creates practical   objects for the home or business. This
ability also manifests itself in farming,   mining, geology and gardening; 
those occupations which produce   valuable products from the earth.
A negative 4 can be a workaholic   whose stem and sterile outlook
makes life a plodding drudgery.   You can be stingy, unfriendly and alone,
boxed in by secure walls of your own making,   which protect you from the
outside world, but also prevent   you from enjoying relationships with others.
This person feels limited and restrained because   of a fearful need for
security.
  As a positive 4, you have the ability 
to build a useful world through
  sound reasoning, where your hard 
work and patient perseverance will
  benefit others in a tangible way.
4 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION:   Work, finances, building,
practicality. 4 brings the need to   define and order things. At this time you
must measure, classify, record,   regulate and compose yourself as well as
your affairs and your environment. You   must attend to everyday, earthly
matters and handle them through   your own efforts and actions. You will
gain materially now through honest toil,   as this is a productive period in
which the creative drive can be controlled   and directed. For males, this time
can indicate virility and fatherhood.
  Controlling your daily activities will 
allow you to reap material rewards.
  Money and finances are very much a 
part of this cycle, so you should be
  economical and practical. Set up a 
budget and pay debts on all levels: 
  materially, physically, mentally and 
spiritually. This is the ideal time to save
  for that special vacation or 
the home you’ve always wanted.
  Surveying land, planning and building 
a new home, or refurbishing or
  reconstructing an existing one are very 
likely pursuits under a 4. There may
  be obstacles that must be solved with 
patience and determination, but if you
  have the courage to struggle through 
all opposition, you can make great
  strides.
During this period reason   reigns. The number 4 is symbolic of a square
window, through which we see; therefore,   you must exercise vision, insight
and analysis. Because you are able to   see into the heart of any situation, you
may be called upon to use your reason   and judgment, perhaps in the judicial
system as a juror or a courtroom witness.   Since the judicial system is the
foundation upon which a just society   is built, under this vibration you may
have to uphold the traditions that regulate   and insure the continuity of that
system.
  Previously hidden aspects of the past 
may be revealed during this period,
  which allow you to correct faulty 
judgments from an earlier time; this is
  because the 4 implies the door of 
opportunity through which you can pass
  into a new life.
Since 4 rules the   physical aspects of living, sensual pleasures are
available to you now. You can have a physically   rewarding relationship with
a member of the opposite sex.
  However, the crux of this vibration 
is responsibility, work and
  accomplishment. It is a time to make 
solid foundations - financial, physical
  or mental - for your life. Business and 
personal relationships can grow, and
  lasting ties of friendship may be developed now.
Financially, you will earn in direct proportion   to your output. Exercise
and take care of your body,   your physical home. When 4 is centered on the
material plane, its energies manifest as   creative abilities. When these
energies are spiritually centered,   new psychic and spiritual realms can be
contacted.
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 4. The 
Emperor. This card, ruling our
  conscious existence, represents reason, 
which is a function of the conscious
  mind. The Emperor therefore rules 
over and sets in order the reasoning,
  conscious elements of the material 
world. He supervises and controls
  through his ability to discern the 
truth in any given situation. It is his
  wisdom in handling affairs systematically 
that has placed him upon the
  throne.
The Emperor is the   Magician grown older and now in a position where
the efforts of the 3 previous stages bring about   concrete rewards in
power and dominion.
  His helmet is red and gold, representing 
Mars and the Sun. The Sun is
  exalted in Aries, which rules this 
card, as shown by the rams’ heads
  adorning the throne. The Emperor’s 
thoughts have been channeled through
  personal effort (Mars) into productive 
and useful implementation, a process
  which has crowned him with authority (the Sun).
He holds the world in his left hand and the Tau   (T) cross in his right. This
cross is the T-square used in   mathematics, geometry, surveying and
planning. He has attained his position   through proper planning. His throne,
simply carved of stone, is symbolic   of the body, which needs long and
arduous work before it is perfected.
  The Empress, 3, and the Emperor, 4, 
are intended to show that what you
  sow with your conscious mind (1) you 
expand through 2 and 3 and finally
  reap through 4. You are what you 
alone have made of yourself; you have
  the power and control. If you are 
dissatisfied, start with 1 and sow the
  proper seeds. Then follow the orderly 
progression through 2 and 3, and at 4,
  you will have what you want. This is 
the message of the first four cards of
  the Tarot.
ASTROLOGICAL   CORRESPONDENCE: Earth (and Aries). Earth,
assigned to 4, and Aries, ruler of the   Emperor, key 4, are the components of
this vibration. 4 is a symbol of form,   manifesting in the four-sided square,
or the cube, a solidified square. As such,   this number logically rules all 
things that have form, shape and   substance. The earth and all that exists as
part of it fall into this category.
  The abundance of the earth comes 
to certain individuals and not to
  others. By examining the astrological 
correspondences we can determine
  why this happens. Number 4 is the result 
of an orderly progression, just as
  earth-ruled Taureans are methodical 
types. If you make an incorrect
  assessment of a situation and proceed 
on that information, then the results
  will be unsatisfactory. Intelligent 
evaluation and proper harnessing of your
  personal energy are necessary for the 
creation of a successful conclusion.
  Aries, the point of beginning, is the 
place we must start if we expect good
  results. Aries has the initial thought 
to begin the process of manifestation
  and the courage to proceed. The earth 
vibration lends stability to the Aries
  desire, and the end product is a proper 
formation of the original thought.
  People with the number 4 will express 
these qualities, and astrologically
  their charts should support their 4 
vibration tendencies with an emphasis on
  Aries and earth signs.
5 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER   VIBRATION: Freedom is an absolute
necessity for you. You cannot be   fenced in, and your restless,
adventurous nature demands   that you travel physically, mentally or
spiritually. Because you are an explorer,   researcher and investigator at heart,
your travels expose you to varied   experiences which you immediately
digest, dissect and file for future   reference. More than others, you learn
from experience. You like to probe   for information and experiment, and
therefore you would be a good detective.
  Versatile, clever, adaptable and very 
creative, you can do anything you
  really want to do. You are extremely 
efficient, but you dislike monotony
  and cannot stand routine jobs. You 
perform well as long as the problem or
  focus of concentration holds your 
interest. As a constructive 5, you can go
  to the heights and the depths without 
harm. There is no limit to what you
  can do, if your actions are governed 
by reason rather than emotion.
  You have inexhaustible energy which, 
if not controlled, can turn into
  outbursts of temper. When you are 
tired, you rebound quickly, for nothing
  upsets you for long.
Your quick mind and   instant reactions cause you to
make impulsive decisions on occasion,   and you tend to be impatient with
people who respond more slowly.   You live on nervous energy.
Hard manual labor is not your   preference, so you drift into ways of
making money through your mental   agility. Gambling is one means of
expression, and you can be very lucky   if you speculate wisely but not
impulsively. You could also be a   mediator, peacemaker and go-between
because your mind quickly performs the   necessary mental gymnastics and
reaches a conclusion.
  Because change is a natural part of 
your life, you must learn to make
  changes in a progressive way. Otherwise 
you can become unstable and go
  in too many directions at once, becoming 
the proverbial jack of all trades,
  master of none.
You are anxious for mental growth,   so you take up new studies whenever
you get the urge. At these times you   may become an avid student and
develop intense concentration.
  There are two paths open to a 5; 
they are indulgence on the physical
  plane and progress on the mental 
plane. As a 5, you can become immersed
  in the purely physical side of life, 
saturating your senses with drugs,
  alcohol, sex, food and comforts. 
Because you communicate well and are
  very witty, talkative, enthusiastic and 
attractive to the opposite sex, you can
  easily fall into the sensual life, 
disregarding and wasting your many talents.
  Negative 5’s can be insincere, untruthful, 
selfish, irresponsible, extravagant
  and unpopular.
Mental development is the key   to the 5, and if you choose this path, the
change and variety you surround yourself   with will supply answers to all
your many questions. Your vast   knowledge will impress people, and you
will eventually accomplish the supreme   task of the 5, that of cleansing the
sanctuary or regenerating the body   by control of the senses. Because 5 is
the number of the ability to develop the   powers within, you can become a
sage.
  5 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
Change, communication, sex, new
  interests, travel. If you are operating 
under a 5 at this time, you feel
  restless and excited. Change, adventure 
and the lure of new vistas beckon
  you. Travel is very much a part of 
this cycle, and if you do not travel
  physically, then you most certainly will 
mentally. It is time to break out of
  stagnant conditions and investigate new 
opportunities. You are attracted to
  home study courses, adult education, 
hobbies and new mental interests of
  all kinds, because this is a period 
of mental growth and development.
  You may be faced with situations that 
require decisions and choices, for 5
  indicates two paths. This can be a 
turning point for you. Because this is a
  time of continual change in your life 
you must be flexible and learn to
  adapt, rather then make rigid plans, 
for they will probably be altered
  anyway. You must be free to meet the 
experience that this period has to
  offer because the pace is fast and 
events are sometimes unexpected. You
  will feel a nervous restless energy 
with this vibration, so try to avoid
  accidents caused by carelessness. 
Instead, channel your energies into
  constructive action through mental application.
This is a perfect time to promote yourself   or a product, because you are
fluent, expressive and able to   communicate easily with others. You will
meet new people and make friends easily.   Business can be combined with
social activities with rewarding   results. From experiences and contacts with
others, you will extract knowledge which will   be filed in your subconscious
and will add greater dimension   to your understanding.
As this is a sensual period,   you are sexually magnetic, and love affairs
will be fast and intense. An old beau may   show up for a last tango. There
will be many opportunities for   relationships with the opposite sex, one of
which could develop into a marriage   partnership. There can be many
temptations, and you will have to use   self-control and make the right
decisions.
  With your strong desire for change, 
you may very well decide, or be
  forced, to change jobs or partners, 
to move, or to alter your lifestyle
  considerably. At times it may seem that 
others are forcing a move, but it is
  your own need for these changes that 
sets up the situations. Sometimes the
  need for change is acted out by others, 
but nevertheless it is caused by your
  own subconscious energies.
Use self-control, channel your   restless energies wisely and act decisively.
This could very well be a turning point   in your life.
TAROT SYMBOLISM:   Key 5. The Hierophant. The Hierophant
represents our inner teacher, our inner   hearing, our intuition. Sages have
always said that release from all   limitation comes to those who awaken
their inner awareness. True inner   hearing does not involve spirits,
clairvoyance and visions from the   astral plane. Rather, true intuition is
based upon the number 4 and key 4, the Emperor.
  When the conscious mind
gathers all the facts and   feeds them into the subconscious mind, the 
subconscious acts upon this information and,   in a flash of intuition, sends
the correct analysis back to the conscious   mind. This is true intuition, based
upon reason.
  The Hierophant’s crown is triple: the 
row of five trefoils represents the
  five senses; the row of seven trefoils 
symbolizes the seven centers in the
  body and the seven original planets; the 
row of three trefoils stands for the
  three states of consciousness: the 
super-conscious, the conscious and the
  subconscious. His staff has the same 
symbolic meaning as the knob on the
  top: both indicate the Source, God. The 
ornaments attached to his crown fall
  just behind his ears to emphasize hearing. 
The crown and staff represent the
  four worlds: archetypal (knob), 
creative, formative and material.
  The pale gray background represents 
wisdom because gray is a mixture
  of equal parts of black and white. 
Thus gray stands for perfect balance
  which is the practical aspect of wisdom.
At the Hierophant’s feet, the crossed keys   symbolize the super-conscious,
which is the key to heaven,   and the subconscious, which is the key to earth
(or hell, if one makes it so). The robes   of the two kneeling priests represent
desire (roses) and purified desire (lilies),   both of which must be sublimated
to the conscious mind.
  This card contains ten crosses representing 
the spiritual numbers 1 to 10,
  the ten aspects of the Tree of Life 
and the ten trees in The Empress’s
  garden.
ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE:   Mercury (and Taurus).
Mercury rules number 5,   and Taurus has dominion over key 5, the
Hierophant. These two seem unlikely partners;   however, consider their
attributes. Mercury,   the messenger of the gods, represents movement,
communication and the intellectual processes.   Taurus, the first earth sign, is
where we find individuals who act   and react with slow deliberation, the
epitome of the type who, in a leisurely manner,   absorbs pleasure through
the five senses.
  Only through calm deliberation 
(Mercury in Taurus), by taking in
  through the senses every piece of 
information presented in any given
  situation, can the intellectual process 
approach its fullest potential. The
  jigsaw puzzle of information is then 
handed in pieces to the subconscious,
  which carefully puts them together. 
Once completed, the picture is
  presented to the conscious mind in a 
flash of insight or intuition. With the
  help of Taurus, Mercury has gathered 
the information, communicated it to
  the subconscious for analysis, and 
then received the answer back in the
  conscious mind.
Number 5 people are faced with   many decisions that require intellectual
discernment. They are definitely   communicators and travelers, and are
attracted to professions such as selling,   advertising, promoting and public
relations.
  6 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER 
VIBRATION: You are an artistic
  individual with a fine eye for beauty 
and symmetry. You find art and
  music relaxing, rewarding and necessary 
for your happiness. If you choose
  a professional career outside the 
home, the creative arts would be an
  appropriate field.
Your innate analytical ability   allows you to go right to the crux of any
matter and solve problems easily and   logically. Your keen perception and
sense of justice would be assets   for professional pursuits in law and
counseling. Others sense your sagacity,   honesty and fairness and seek you
out to settle any differences they   encounter. You are a responsible person
who meets obligations and can be depended   upon to follow through on
anything you have promised.
  6 is also the domestic vibration, 
indicating that you love your home and
  children. You may have married young 
in order to obtain the love you need,
  which a mate and children can provide. 
A woman with this number is likely
  to be a homemaker, very protective 
and fond of her husband and children.
  She prefers to be at home rather than 
to go out and battle the world for a 
  living. One reason for her reluctance to 
go out into the world is the need for
  peace and harmony, which is important 
for all 6’s. A beautiful, artistically
  decorated home is very important 
for you. You enjoy decorating and
  making your surroundings attractive. 
You like comfort and peace and will
  not tolerate discord. Entertaining in 
your own home, if possible, is a joy for
  you, and you are a charming host or hostess.
You really love your friends and are concerned   and sympathetic to their
needs. If they require help,   you generously offer whatever you have.
Because of your generosity, kindness,   patience and tolerance, you have
many friends.
  Consideration for others is basic to 
you personally, and you rejoice in
  other people’s happiness and rewards 
as your own. You dislike jealousy
  intensely and cannot understand it 
when other people react that way. In
  spite of your great desire for a peaceful 
existence, you will fight for your
  beliefs against all opposition.
This determination can bring you success and
  fame in whatever profession you choose.
A negative 6 can be very obstinate. You   may become a slave to your
loved ones, who use you as a   doormat. You may bury yourself in your
home, becoming a recluse. If you feel   you have been denied the love you
need so desperately, you will feel   sorry for yourself, complain and whine,
and indulge in self-pity. You may become   discontented and jealous and play
the martyr.
  As a positive 6, you can be a tremendous 
power for good, bringing joy,
  love, beauty and a sense of justice 
into others’ lives, thus establishing
  yourself as a snug harbor in the 
cold, destructive storms of life.
  6 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
Marriage, change in home,
  redecoration and remodeling, domestic 
and community responsibilities.
  The energies of this period center 
about your home and community. First
  look for the emphasis in the home, 
where changes are occurring. People
  may come into or leave your home, 
through marriage, birth, death, divorce
  and other occurrences, or you 
may change your residence.
  You may marry now, or develop strong 
ties of friendship with someone.
  You feel a greater sense of responsibility 
toward others which people will
  sense; and as a result, they turn to you 
for assistance. They will cry on your
  shoulder and perhaps ask for financial 
aid. Some relationships could
  become burdensome and older people 
may be a responsibility now. You 
  must accept this situation cheerfully 
and above all maintain harmony; put
  aside your own needs for a time. 
However, don’t accept unnecessary
  burdens.
This vibration stimulates your   artistic sense, which you could put to
constructive use by redecorating or   remodeling your home. Your social
awareness is emphasized also,   so entertaining in your home should be high
on your list of things to do. Putting   your house in order also includes your
physical house, your body. Have a checkup,   then begin a course of exercise
to tighten and firm sagging muscles   and generally build a healthier body.
Remember, don’t take on unnecessary   responsibilities, for commitments
that you accept now must be seen   through to their conclusion. Instead,
finish up the old projects that have been   on your mind. Think carefully
about how to overcome the   obstacles that confront you.
This can be a loving, rewarding   and creative period, if you maintain
balance and harmony. Make your home   as attractive and warm as possible,
and others will bask in its sunny radiance.
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 6. The 
Lovers. The Lovers is an obvious
  reference to partnership and 
marriage, the union of opposite but
  complementary components. The 
keyword is discrimination. When we
  discriminate we set apart and separate 
in order to see the innate differences
  between two categories. In this manner, 
we can tell the true from the false.
  All creatures, including humans, 
have their own unique odor. This is
  especially important in the animal 
kingdom; mating, self-protection and
  preservation all depend upon a keen 
sense of smell. People discriminate
  through the sense of smell, which is 
therefore, an attribute of key 6.
  The two human figures represent 
opposing factors of the one Source,
  Adam and Eva (her name in the original 
manuscripts), male and female,
  positive and negative, and the 
conscious and subconscious minds. These
  two specialized manifestations of the 
one life force must become equalized
  before attaining unity. The male, or 
conscious mind, looks to the female, or
  the subconscious mind, which in turn gazes up at 
the angel, or the superconscious. Only through   this step-by-step process can we reach our source
and draw upon its power and inspiration.
  The tree behind Adam symbolizes the 
signs of the zodiac. The flames on
  the left of the tree trunk symbolize 
the five senses, and those on the right
  symbolize the body and the original planets.
Behind Eva is the Tree of Knowledge.   The serpent in the tree, the
kundalini force, gives them the   power to create. When the kundalini is
trapped in the lower center of the body,   at or near the base of the spine, only
the senses are fulfilled. One must   raise the kundalini, or life force, up the
spine to the higher centers in the head so that   the life force can be expressed
on a loftier plane.
  ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: 
Venus (and Gemini). As the
  ruler of 6, Venus seeks to bring 
together seemingly opposing factors into
  harmonious unit. These opposing elements 
are well represented by Gemini,
  the twins, which rules the hands, arms, 
lungs and shoulders; these are all
  pairs that must operate in unison if the 
body is to be well coordinated. Also,
  we use our hands and arms to express 
our love, by touching and holding.
  Many people cannot communicate 
effectively without the use of their
  hands.
Venus gives us the urge   to create a peaceful, loving and comfortable
environment, surrounded by our family and   friends. Number 6 individuals
are oriented in this direction.
  Domestic life is your highest priority, and you
find comfort and fulfillment in the home,   or in home-related activities. Your
artistic sense is developed through   the Venusian symmetry, so you may be
active in the arts, fashion, or home decorating.
  7 AS A PERSONAL VIBRATION: 
You are a dreamer and a
  philosopher, and your destiny is 
your mind. You are attracted to the
  mystical side of life. Your clairvoyant 
and psychic abilities are marked, and
  you will develop the intuitive, introspective 
side of your personality. Often 
  your psychic hunches foretell future 
events. If you develop your psychic
  gift, you can use it for the benefit of others.
Realizing that you must leave behind the   desires of the material world,
you turn to the world of mind and   thought. There you learn to enclose
yourself behind secret walls, where   your creative imagination roams freely.
Poetry and music lift your spirits and   transport you to other spaces. Your
self-imposed periods of isolation   make you something of an enigma even to
yourself. You are often called a loner,   and no one really knows you. Of all
the numbers, you could most easily   remain single, and in fact, many 7’s live
as hermits or recluses. When it comes to   carrying out your own ideas, you
can be very determined.
  As a rule, orthodox religious beliefs 
don’t offer you enough spiritual
  substance; therefore, you will search 
for your own individual belief system.
  However, some 7’s stay with their 
church and rise to positions of great
  power. Pythagoras considered 7 to be 
the most sacred of all numbers, and
  his students took their vows or obligations 
by the number 7. In ancient days,
  a child born under the number 7 was 
immediately placed in the temple to
  become a priest or priestess. Today 7’s 
are found in the higher echelons of
  the church or as leaders in mystical 
circles. They gain spiritual realization
  and become masters.
You are a perceptive   person who understands human nature. When you
meet someone you are not often fooled by their   outer personality, but seem
to scan their inner motives   at once. Sometimes you make people uneasy
with your ability to see right through them.
  Thoughts are words of the mind, 
and you become close friends with
  words, since you understand their 
protective, preserving and influential
  power. Your cultured, studious nature 
is enhanced and broadened by change
  and travel which you love. Your mind 
eagerly absorbs the information you
  derive from contact with foreign lands 
and cultures. You prefer living in the
  country rather than in the city. In the 
country you can lead a leisurely life in
  a dignified and conservative atmosphere. 
You have a retiring nature and, in
  that environment, you can experience 
the periods of quiet contemplation
  that are necessary for your mental development.
The fastidiousness of your dress is unique;   you would never wear
someone else’s clothes,   nor would you let anyone else wear yours. You
seem to be innately aware that all people   have their own distinct vibrations,
which are transmitted to anything they touch.
  You are methodical, in keeping with 
the rhythm of the 7 which rules
  periodicity in nature. Although you 
have good business ideas, you should
  not enter into the business field, 
because you seldom carry out those ideas.
  Unselfishness, compassion and 
dedication are qualities you should
  develop. You have an idea of what 
the world should be. When the world
  does not conform to your ideal, you 
may become frustrated and depressed.
  Generally, you dislike advice, and 
others find it hard to convince you of
  things because your mind is so individualistic.
A negative 7 is gloomy. Your disappointment   in the outer world drives
you to a lonely existence,   where you become a hermit or recluse, and shut
out the people who cannot live up to your ideals.
  However, by using your will and by 
gaining control of your tremendous
  mental powers, you can be a vehicle 
for good in a world that desperately
  needs what you have to offer: 
a sound creative mind.
  7 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Reflection, 
rest, health, vacations. It
  is time to rest; God rested on the seventh 
day, and this is your seventh day.
  Become quiet and receptive. Think about 
yourself and your station in life.
  Analyze your goals, projects and 
relationships. Spend time by yourself and
  listen to your inner promptings. 
Write down your thoughts. You can be
  inspired by dreams, visions, and intuitions now;   therefore, any writings you
produce can be creatively moving.
  Use the energies of this period for 
mental exercise and discipline. Now
  you can master technical skills to aid 
in your profession, or benefit from
  philosophical and metaphysical 
disciplines including religion, yoga,
  transcendental meditation, 
astrology and numerology.
  Do not push your financial affairs 
under a 7. This is not a time to be
  impulsive or concern yourself with 
business. It is a time of physical
  completion and attainment in the 
cycles because you can see the
  consequences of your previous efforts.
Matters mysteriously complete themselves   without any effort on your part. 
Wait and let the cycle work for you.
  The number 7 rules the physical body 
and body functions; therefore, the
  forces within your body are now active. 
You must pace yourself wisely, rest
  and take care of minor problems. 
Abuse and overexertion can bring on
  physical maladies and illnesses. These 
discomforts force you to slow down,
  so that you will take the time to reflect 
upon yourself and your purpose in 
  life, which is the most important reason 
for this cycle. Vacations are always
  pleasant, and now is a good time to take one.
Be careful when signing any documents   or legal agreements. Check
every word and look for loopholes;   when you have thoroughly scrutinized
all aspects, sign with confidence.
  You will not feel the need to socialize 
at this time; rather, you prefer
  either to be alone or to be with people 
of a spiritual nature who complement
  and uplift your contemplative mood. Do 
not fight your inner urgings to rest,
  for that will only bring on physical 
problems and frustration. Instead, flow
  with this and look deep within yourself 
to discover the beautiful facets of
  your true inner self, the perfect jewel.
TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 7. The Chariot.   The Chariot represents
receptivity to the will of the   one Source. The keyword attributed to this card
is fence or enclosure, and its sense function is   speech. Every word we speak
is a fence enclosing an idea   or thought. An eloquent vocabulary is a
powerful tool for protection and preservation,   as well as advancement.
When we speak we set in motion   a vibration that acts upon the ethers, space
and akasha. Blavatsky said, “Sound or speech   is a tremendous force when
directed by occult knowledge.”   It is only when we become still, quiet and
receptive that we can be victorious. Then the   primal force can work through
us.
  Symbolically, the Charioteer is the 
soul, directing the chariot, the body.
  Notice that the Charioteer has no reins. 
It is mentally, through the will, that
  he directs the sphinxes, the positive 
and negative senses, to draw the chariot
  along. The starry canopy overhead 
indicates that we are recipients of
  celestial energies. The waxing and 
waning moons depict time and rhythm,
  which are stages of mind. This can 
be seen by their placement on the
  shoulders, ruled by Gemini, which is 
the first air sign, symbolizing the
  mind.
The winged globe on the cart   represents self-consciousness, elevated by
aspiration. The disc with an upright   rod through the center depicts the
positive and negative forces joined in   a working relationship. The square on
the Charioteer’s breast indicates an   orderly attitude, and his eight-paneled
skirt decorated with talismans, represents   the soul’s dominion over the
material world.
  The message here is that through control 
of the senses, and elevation and
  purification of the desires, by the use 
of our own free will, we can achieve
  complete dominion while in the physical body.
ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE:   Moon (and Cancer). The
Moon has four seven-day cycles,   and since the earth was created on the
sixth day, the Moon, a satellite of   the earth, could not have come into
manifestation until after the sixth day.   With 7 as the end of a physical cycle,
we can readily see why the Moon is   assigned to this number.
Cancer, the crab, rules this   key 7. The crab has a fence or shell which
protects its soft body from the dangers of   the outer world.
During a 7 cycle,   one is sequestered away from the world in some
manner, as the crab, Cancer, withdraws into   its protective shell to ponder
recent experiences and examine   them subconsciously (Moon).
Number 7 people are quiet,   introspective, analytical and very profound.
They are the thinkers of the world,   and are usually involved in some
scientific, philosophical or   metaphysical pursuit. Alone, they can mentally
wander the universe, searching for the shell   that will enclose their ideas
with form and substance.
  8 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: 
Strength, will and effort
  are the keywords for your nature. 
You have the ability to channel your
  energies in order to alter any given 
situation, so you will ultimately be a
  leader. The power you exert over the 
material world is a product of the
  discipline you expend. You are the big 
boss type with executive abilities,
  and you can manage and organize 
efficiently. With your sound business
  judgment and knowledge of the value 
of a dollar, you prefer a big
  expanding business to a small enterprise.
You can be a great success in the   financial world. You are shrewd,
resourceful and ambitious for power,   and failure just spurs you on to greater
effort. You do not give up easily. You   are a money maker, and will probably
become wealthy. Some 8’s make and lose more   than one fortune in their
lifetimes.
  You are a down-to-earth realist. A 
career in finance, banking, brokerage,
  speculation or investment would be 
a good outlet for your energies.
  However, working for material gain 
alone will not provide the satisfaction
  you need, and you must learn to share 
your good fortune with others. You
  work zealously for the causes you 
adopt, and you should encourage your
  philanthropic leanings. Don’t neglect 
your spiritual side, however. Develop
  and live by a sound policy, so that if 
material reverses occur, you will still
  have a solid basis on which to rebuild. 
This is where your sense of balance
  and judgment is most necessary.
You are endowed with originality   and inspiration and you like to create
so you are multi-talented in all areas   of material achievement. With these
qualities and your diplomacy, persistence   and courage, you can accomplish
anything.
  Many outstanding athletes come 
under the number 8 vibration. They
  achieve distinction through discipline, 
effort, will and strength. Also, an
  athlete needs a fine sense of balance 
and rhythm, which are qualities of the
  8.
Your marriage is likely to   be based on a need for security rather than
love. You want to be proud of your family,   home and possessions.
If you are a negative 8,   you are someone to be feared. You can be a bully,
domineering, selfish and ruthless,   scheming for your own advancement.
You may be a revolutionary, ready to   overthrow and disrupt. Upheaval is a
way of life with you.
  An 8 knows no halfway measures. It 
is either personal limitation or
  spiritual freedom, splendor or degradation. 
You must accept responsibility
  and handle it as well as you can. Use 
the positive 8 vibrations to create a
  stable material world in which you are 
willing to share your fine managerial
  capabilities and creative talents. Be 
guided by the philanthropist in you.
  8 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
Responsibility, money, business,
  karma. As ye sow, so shall ye reap. 
This truth will be most evident under
  an 8. You will receive exactly what 
you deserve during this karmic period,
  because it is time to receive payments 
and pay debts. Since 8 rules the
  material plane, if you have sown 
wisely, you can expect recognition and
  rewards. You may get the raise or 
promotion you’ve been waiting for, along
  with more responsibility and pressure.
If you’ve been planning a business venture,   this is the time to start by
building a solid foundation for   all your commercial enterprises. Face
practical reality and put your finances   in the black. Success on the material
level is yours, so make your projects   financially profitable. Be efficient,
organized and concerned with tangible results.   You will need energy and
ambition to respond to the call you   now hear. The inner drive for physical
accomplishment is paramount,   but you must be cautious. Don’t let the strain
of your present undertaking deplete your energies.   Those in power will help
you if you ask.
  Because of the karmic implications 
of this cycle, you may receive an
  inheritance or legacy. You may have 
sown seeds of love and concern for
  someone who, in return, will give you 
material rewards, money, property or
  something of value. Whatever you 
receive is the result of your own past
  efforts.
Be helpful to those who are   not operating at your high energy level. In
your drive to the top, don’t forget your   friends and those around you. Lend
them your strength and assurance,   for surely this 8 cycle will show you the
absolute necessity of sowing good seeds.
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 8. Strength. 
The keyword for this card is the
  fang of the serpent. The serpent 
represents the kundalini, or life force,
  which, in undeveloped persons lies coiled 
three and a half times at the base
  of the spine. This force must be elevated, 
to transform the individual into a 
  more spiritually-oriented person. All 
transformations in nature are actually
  specialized manifestations 
of this kundalini force.
  The only two numbers that can be 
written over and over without ending
  are 8 and 0. As such they represent 
divine power. The number 8 represents
  material power as well.
In key 8 we direct this life   force through suggestion. The woman is the
subconscious mind controlling body functions   and directing the amounts of
vital force that the body   receives. She also receives and acts upon
suggestions from the conscious mind. Her   dominion over the lion is through
gentle and spiritual power rather   than by brute force.
The roses around the   woman and the lion form a chain. Roses,
representing desire, must be tended and   properly cared for. In this context, a
chain of roses is a series of cultivated   desires. Any suggestion emanating
from a desire sets up a chain reaction   in the subconscious that eventually
results in manifestation. The cosmic   lemniscate (figure-8-shaped curve)
over her head gives her dominion in this world.
  ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: 
Saturn (and Leo). Saturn is
  assigned to the number 8 and Leo has 
rulership over key 8, Strength. Saturn
  urges the expression of concrete 
achievement, and represents those who
  have the necessary determination and 
discipline to rise to the top in their
  chosen field.
Leo lifts the spirits of an   overly sober saturnian attitude and
bestows a sunny and magnanimous   acceptance of responsibility, as well as
the ability to rule in a regal fashion.
  Number 8 individuals have the capacity 
for the top executive positions.
  They possess enormous reserves of 
strength, which can be called upon
  when the pressure is heavy. Many 
outstanding athletes also have an 8 in
  their personal expression.
9 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER   VIBRATION: You are a humanitarian,
a universalist who thinks in abstract   terms. Born for service to others,
you want to make the world a better   place in which to live. Since 9 is the
last single digit, it indicates attainment,   perfection and completion, the
seeds for new beginnings, the foundation   for future growth in the next or
higher cycle.
  You have a thirst for spiritual 
knowledge and an urge for freedom and
  wisdom that transcends personal needs. 
You desire to live an ideal life
  according to your inspirations and 
aspirations. Through your responsive
  reaching out to the world, you 
become a beacon for others.
  The number 9 is a testing number. 
The higher you evolve, the more
  difficulties you may encounter. You 
should be tolerant of and merciful to
  others on your path. In this way you 
will be an example for them, and they
  will recognize your sympathetic and 
compassionate nature. People will be
  drawn to you for your deep 
and broad understanding.
  Your thinking is vast, and without 
limits. Because of your openness, your
  psychic abilities are well developed, 
and foresight, premonitions and
  predictions flow from you with ease. 
You seem to have a direct line to the
  mysteries of life. You have very 
strong emotions and feelings and could
  evolve a new philosophy for humanity.
You are generous and idealistic. For   anyone who needs your wisdom and
guidance, you are open-handed and   beneficent, because you realize that
knowledge belongs to those who seek it.   Charitable work is close to your
heart, and you are likely to be   a patron of the arts and sciences.
Your associations with other people   in your life are intense, but not
necessarily enduring. You must learn   to let friends go when their needs have
been filled, because your destiny is to   be a loner, a sort of recluse. You are
not meant to sit alone meditating on a   mountaintop, but your innate wisdom
and understanding separate you from   the crowd. You must share your
wisdom to enlighten the world,   so you cannot be bound by enduring ties
that would limit your mobility.   Your life cycle includes travel and
associations with famous personalities   who will be drawn to you by your 
free spirit and broad compassion.   Your friendship encompasses the world.
You easily acquire money and independence,   so that you are free to pursue
your worldly destiny.
  If you are a negative 9, you are 
self-serving and concerned with your
  own needs rather than the needs of 
others. This self-indulgence precludes
  belief in a higher source and can result 
in faithlessness. When crossed you
  are quick tempered. Your keen mind 
makes you a formidable enemy. Since
  9’s have to live up to a higher standard 
than the other numbers, the resulting
  tension can cause nervous troubles. 
This can produce unhappy relations
  with others, including your mate.
Corinne Heline says in The Sacred   Science of Numbers: “The 9
individual has run the gamut   of personal experiences, including both the
high and the low, the mundane and the spiritual.   It is the synthesis of these
experiences which produces   that sympathy, compassion and rare
understanding which is characteristic of the   9.” Using the enhancing
qualities of your number 9,   you can be the visionary for whom all things are
possible. Your faith in life embraces all and   looks forward to evolution as
the promise of the spirit.
  9 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
Changes, endings, charity,
  inspiration. Events take place quickly 
at this time, with many stops and
  starts, because you are experiencing 
a period of change and transition. As
  Paul Case says in The Tarot, “You 
must make the final selection between
  assimilable material and what is rejected 
as waste.” Eliminating the useless,
  and separating yourself from past 
mistakes can be an emotional experience,
  for we often are reluctant to let go 
of the obstacles in our lives. If you
  cannot free yourself from associations 
and situations that are no longer
  necessary for your development, then 
the 9 cycle will do it for you. A
  vacation or trip would be good therapy 
at this time, giving you time to think
  and separate yourself from the 
emotionalism you might encounter under
  this vibration.
Many of your goals will be   realized during this time, and you should
attempt to finish all projects that   are close to completion. As this is an
ending cycle, do not make new commitments.   Projects begun under a 9
have little durability.
  Present friendships can be cemented 
and made more enduring, and you
  may receive gifts from friends. This 
should be a charitable time, in which 
  you think primarily of other people’s welfare.
Do something for others in thanks for the   blessings you have received 
in this life. An old friend or   lover may enter your life briefly 
for one last encounter, but don’t   expect this sudden renewal to last.
Since this is an ending cycle, you may   change jobs or residence. Children
may leave home for higher education   or marriage, or to begin their own
lives. If you are separated from the   people, situations and locations with
which you have lived for a long time,   it is because they no longer serve
your evolutionary process.
  Use the creative powers of this vibration 
to develop your artistic abilities.
  You will have inspirational ideas that 
can be used productively in the future
  in a way that the next cycle’s 
number will determine.
  Don’t be caught by your emotions. 
Hanging on to the past, wallowing in
  what used to be can only bring 
discontentment, frustration and depression.
  Rather, look forward with joy and high 
expectations to the future, for which
  the releasing energy of this cycle 
has prepared you. Use the wisdom
  provided by the events of this cycle to 
inspire your actions productively in
  the future.
TAROT SYMBOLISM:   Key 9. The Hermit. The symbol for key 9 is the
yod, the tongue of flame,   the glyph that makes up every letter in the
Hebrew alphabet. It represents the fiery energy,   the life force, and the hand,
opened rather than closed,   of man and woman. In the body we are little
serpents, containing a portion of the one   Source’s fiery energy. As such, we
are the hands of God operating   in the physical world.
The Hermit is a symbol of   ageless wisdom, standing on the mountain of
attainment. He has achieved. The snow   represents the isolation he endures
because his wisdom sets him apart   from others. However, as he turns to
shine his light on those who follow him,   he intimates that our knowledge is
empty and meaningless until we turn   and give it to others. The Hermit has
evaluated, selecting the necessary and   discarding the unnecessary elements
along his path. He has learned to   use the Magician’s wand, which he now
leans on, for he knows he can depend upon   it for support. He has achieved
mastery.
  ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: 
Sun (and Virgo). The Sun is
  assigned to 9 because it is only after 
you carefully progress through the
  previous steps, 1 through 8, that you 
can attain a position of respect and
  leadership, as well as a full recognition 
of your inner potential. The true
  inner self is expressed under a 9, 
as you become the humanitarian, the
  universalist who reaches out to the 
multitudes to lighten their burdens
  through your understanding, 
wisdom and compassion.
  Virgo’s assignment indicates that 
careful, thorough analysis has preceded
  this final position of authority. Any 
mistakes along the path could have led
  the aspirant astray; therefore, keen 
discrimination is necessary at all times.
  10/1 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER 
VIBRATION: If you embrace the
  philosophy of reincarnation, you will 
recognize that you are an old soul
  who has lived many lives of both high 
and low degree and who has learned
  how transitory the things of the earth 
are. You have a talent for influencing
  and bringing people together, and you 
are a power person who has a special
  spiritual mission in the world. Your 
word is power and your presence,
  peace. Therefore, your mission could 
be to establish peace and fellowship
  among the races and peoples of the world.
Your clear thinking and comprehension   help you to grasp and to use any
situation to advantage. Leadership   positions are open to you because of
your obvious control and mastery. Your   productive talents constantly
revivify those around you.
  With a 10, luck, success, honor and 
material rewards are yours, for you
  easily attract and acquire those things 
that others struggle for so desperately.
  Complete attainment and realization 
are possible because you are in touch 
  with your super-conscious although 
you may describe this as a deep inner
  feeling. You understand other people’s 
feelings and needs, and you have
  faith and confidence in yourself. These 
treasures are brought over from past
  life experiences, or, if you prefer, 
they are the capitalization of past
  experiences in this lifetime. Your 
wise use of previous experience means
  that your influence will be wide and pronounced.
You take one step at a time and keep   your mind on the goals you have
set. The gradual turning of the wheel   assures your progress, so your plans
are likely to succeed.
  If you are a negative 10, you may 
be fixed, stubborn and opinionated.
  You are inclined to overdo and exaggerate 
your needs and desires. You may
  not realize your latent abilities until 
you are spiritually awakened. Once you
  are awakened, however, your influence 
knows no limits. Your power for
  good is phenomenal.
10/1 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION:   Intuition, fortune, luck, a turn
for the better. What you have   been waiting for may now be yours. The
culmination of a series of events brings   success and material
accomplishment.
  You could call this cycle a turn 
for the better, the start of
  something new. The innovative 
ideas and fresh beginnings you are
  experiencing now are really an expression 
of the law of cause and effect.
  Events that appear accidental or mere 
chance result from efforts you have
  already expended.
This is an initiation period   in which you may be required to stand alone
and make decisions. Base your decisions upon   precise and definite facts,
then rely upon your intuition,   which is based upon reason. Then you will
know what to do. You can settle differences   with previous enemies because
of your clear comprehension   of the situation and its problems.
Events now reveal your understanding   of the circumstances in your life.
If you have worked hard and efficiently,   you can expect to receive your just
reward. Progress, improvement and   advancement are yours. You may be
awarded a special position you have   been vying for, win the lottery, or
inherit a large sum of money, which   will help you start a new life. Realize
that any of these experiences are the   product of your own efforts.
If failure and loss plague you,   then understand that every circumstance in
life is the result of the prior use of your   energies. Decide now to begin to
work and plan wisely, so that you   can gain mastery over your future. The 
wheel of fortune keeps turning, and the next   rotation can bring exactly what
you want, if you begin now.
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 10. The 
Wheel of Fortune. The symbol
  corresponding to this card is the 
closed hand, indicating mental
  comprehension. To grasp is to own; and 
to grasp your place in the world is
  to grasp what and who you really are. 
Therefore you never suffer material
  deprivation.
The number 10 begins a new cycle,   a repetition of the 1. Rotation and
cyclicity are the keywords for the Wheel   of Fortune. All is in the process of
becoming; change is the only constant,   so in due time, all things come to
pass.
  The bull, the lion, the eagle and the 
man represent the four fixed signs of
  the zodiac: Taurus, Leo, Scorpio (the 
eagle is a symbol for the higher side
  of Scorpio), and Aquarius. The books 
that they hold represent the wisdom of
  the ages. They indicate the laws of 
the universe, which are immutable,
  fixed, and cannot be changed. The wavy 
serpent symbolizes the descent of
  the life force into manifestation. 
The jackal-headed hermanubis (an
  Egyptian god Thoth, also a race of 
jackal-headed men) shows evolution of
  form, while the human body and animal 
head indicate that man has not
  evolved beyond the intellectual level. 
His ears above the horizon of the
  Wheel show that man’s interior hearing 
or intuition allows him to rise to a
  higher level. The sphinx depicts the 
developed human being to which we
  aspire. The woman’s head and breast, 
coupled with the lion’s body, show
  the soul in dominion over the body, in 
perfect harmony, hence exemplifying
  the union of male and female powers.
ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE:   Jupiter (and Mars). When we
work with the astrological   correspondence of the double numbers, we take
the number on the right and see it work   through the number on the left.
Here we have the God power, 0,   working through Mars, 1, to bring about
new starts and a change in fortune. The   Jupiter influence from key 10, the
Wheel of Fortune, gives us the faith   and optimism that our new beginning
will ultimately bring generous rewards.
  Once we have completed the basic 1 
through 9 cycle, every subsequent
  digit merely repeats one of the original 
9. Therefore, we can see why 10 is
  considered a new start. With the 9 we 
have finished a complete cycle, and
  in 10 we have the promise that the 
God power within us never ceases, but
  merely changes form, and that the new 
form still contains the life spark,
  Mars.
11/2 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER   VIBRATION: 11 is one of the four
master numbers, along with 22,   33 and 44. All master numbers are powerful
because they accentuate the vibration of the   base number to which they can
be reduced.
  As an 11, you can draw upon the cosmic 
forces for inspiration and for aid
  in attaining enlightenment and 
even cosmic consciousness. Your
  pronounced intuitive abilities can 
guide your original, inventive and
  creative mind. As you will probably 
be a leader in some way, you must use
  these higher vibrations wisely. True 
mastery is service, and you need to be
  practical as well as idealistic 
in the role you assume.
  Foresight and acute perception make 
you a visionary. You are idealistic
  and feel compassion for all types of 
people, regardless of their station in
  life. The desire to uplift others brings 
out the teacher in you. You can be a
  memorable teacher, speaker, preacher 
or writer, whose deep understanding
  of people’s needs inspires them and 
opens new avenues of expression
  within them. Your talent for educating 
others cannot go unrecognized for
  long, and probably you will become 
famous. You are the specialist who
  seeks accomplishment rather than 
glory, but who always seems to gain
  recognition at the same time.
You feel that administering the law   is important, and you are not content
to sit back and spout platitudes. Your   devotion to the expression of wisdom
must find an energetic outlet so that   you can actively participate in areas of
life where your philosophy can be effective.   With your sense of justice, 
fairness and honesty, you can   become a leader in public and civic affairs,
where your impartiality promotes better standards   of living for the people
whose lives you touch.
  You have the courage of your convictions 
and will fight legally to see
  them implemented. Your life will be 
busy and active, forever meeting tests
  and challenges. If you go to extremes 
in emotion, fortune and health, the
  high vibration of 11 will pull you out 
with renewed and surprising courage.
  You are intrigued by ESP, the occult 
and mystical and spiritual studies.
  Through some metaphysical or 
philosophical discipline, you can more
  easily tap your great creative potential. 
As an inspirational artist you can
  create objects of exquisite beauty 
that can evoke deep feelings in the
  viewer. You should work with 
others of a like nature.
  If you don’t respond to the higher 
vibration of 11, you live life as a 2 (see
  the reading for that number). You 
become involved in the details of your
  work and you may be forced into a 
life of servitude in some capacity.
  If you are a negative 11, you use 
your power harmfully, which will work
  to your own detriment by creating 
negative karma. You may be unfair,
  prejudiced and severe, and you should 
beware of hidden dangers. However,
  you can redeem yourself through charitable works.
Use your 11 to create a balanced life,   in which all your actions are
weighed and measured. Your great   insight and inspirational devotion will be
an oasis in the parched lives of many people.
  11/2 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
Tests, legal dealings, inspiration,
  art, quick decisions. This master 
number period can be experienced as a 2
  vibration if you do not live 
up to the number 11 potential.
  You will have to make decisions 
quickly, because sudden events will
  require decisive action. Experiences 
occurring now are exciting, stimulating
  and likely to make you impulsive, so 
you must be patient and tolerant. Get
  rid of past mistaken thoughts and 
actions that have set up negative
  circumstances and select the right 
combination of attitudes to produce more
  desirable results in the future.
There can be legal dealings involving   money in some way. For example,
you could be the recipient or the   executor of a legacy. Financial settlements
are possible, and agreements and partnership   complications may have to be
settled.
  Educational considerations may arise 
now, for the vibrations of this
  period are urging you to seek a balance 
and weigh the meaning of life. If
  educational pursuits will achieve this 
end, then you will have opportunities
  during this period to enter a school, 
take a course or perfect a skill.
  Because your mind is highly sensitized, 
you should develop your psychic
  and intuitive abilities. The power 
of 11 must be made into something
  tangible and useful. A course in some 
metaphysical discipline would help
  you organize the nervous energy that 
is your connecting link to the high
  vibration of 11. Or you could develop 
your creative potential by working
  with more than one artistic medium 
simultaneously, or by collecting works
  of art and attending the theater and 
concerts. Surround yourself with
  culture. You are likely to have dreams, 
visions and revelations under this
  influence.
If you are already prepared   mentally and technically your talents may be
recognized by someone who will offer   you a promising position, or you
may receive public acclaim for some   personal effort. The spotlight is on
you in some way.
  This is a testing and challenging 
period. If you channel your intense
  energies into something worthwhile, 
you will accomplish more now than
  you will in any other cycle. Master 
numbers offer master accomplishments.
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 11. Justice. 
Teaching, education and guidance
  come under key 11, which seeks to bring 
about balance through justice. The
  scales here also symbolize the 
doctrine of karma—work, action and
  reaction, the law of cause and effect.
The outstanding lesson of key 11 is to   weigh the meaning of present
conditions and achieve balance   by overcoming the errors of the past. Use
the sword of discrimination to eliminate   mistaken thoughts. Libra rules here
also and shows us that we communicate   only through the seventh house of
cooperation and through the principle   of love. Libra rules the kidneys, the
organs of elimination that maintain   the chemical balance of the body.
Through elimination of the poisonous   toxins in our lives, we ensure a
balanced life.
  The scales represent balance. There 
are 7 straight lines of equal
  length in the scales, representing 
the 7 centers in the body, and the
  7 original planets: Mercury (key 
1), Moon (key 2), Venus (key 3),
  Jupiter (key 10), Mars (key 16), 
Sun (key 19) and Saturn (key 21).
  ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: 
Uranus (Libra). The Uranus
  vibration is emphasized in master number 
11. This is a testing vibration in
  which you are required to weigh and 
analyze the tremendous energy that is
  flowing through your life. If this great 
personal energy is used impetuously
  or unwisely, it can bring on accidents 
(a by-product of nervous energy),
  legal difficulties and impulsive decisions.
  Libra seeks to calm the nervous Uranian 
energy, teaching you how to use
  these abilities in harmony with the 
environment and be a help to others. The
  accident potential is transformed into 
a specialized drive toward a specific
  goal; legal difficulties translate into 
important contracts; and impulsive
  actions become positively decisive. The 
catalyst is you, and, as always, you
  must decide how you will use the 
raw potential of the number.
  12/3 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER 
VIBRATION: You are an unusual
  person who has accumulated inner 
strength through your unique
  experience. Your poise sets you apart 
from the common world, which looks
  upon you as a sort of oddity. Your thoughts 
are centered in spiritual analysis
  rather than judgment of others. You 
have a perfect tolerance for divergent
  beliefs, philosophies and life styles, 
and yet you walk in all things contrary
  to the world. You know that reality is 
illusion, and illusion, reality. Many
  people in the world are ill, in great 
suffering and poverty, unable to exist in 
  harmony with others and have trouble 
accepting even themselves. You
  know that these afflictions are 
expressions of the law of cause and effect
  and that whatever happens is a result 
of the individual’s own choice, either
  conscious or unconscious. Modem 
science and psychology have proven
  this. By reversing or changing your 
thoughts, you become free of physical
  encumbrances. Knowing these facts, 
you embrace a philosophy that the
  world laughs at because your 
thinking seems wrong. Yet, without
  antagonizing anyone, you have quietly 
reversed your way of life and at the
  same time come to understand other 
people’s ways. Peace and serenity fill
  your being, because even though you 
are earthbound, you have attained a
  measure of freedom. Your life is free 
of materialism and worldly matters.
  You epitomize wisdom. By crucifying 
the personal life, you have allowed
  the true self to be born. Others 
come to you for peace and guidance,
  needing your faith in life and in themselves.
  Your life may be one of voluntary 
sacrifice in which you encounter
  difficulties, trials and renunciation; 
however, no adversity can disturb your
  deep serenity. You have trod the Wheel 
of Ezekiel, the zodiacal circle and
  have accumulated the courage, wisdom 
and presence of mind that will
  preserve you.
12/3 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION:   Waiting period, change of view,
reversal, submission. Stop, look   and listen. This is a quiet pause in your
life, when you should spend time thinking,   learning to see things as they
really are and not as they   appear. By bringing seemingly conflicting
polarities into perspective in your mind,   you create an inner harmony that is
reflected out to your environment.   Meditate upon the fact that the miseries
of the world are self-imposed, caused by   negative thought processes. If your
world is in disharmony,   realize that your thoughts have created the
problems, and that a change of view is in order.
  Meditation, trips to the seashore or 
countryside, classes in philosophy
  and mind relaxation techniques will 
help put you in touch with the power
  now working beneath the surface. By 
submitting your consciousness to the
  universal mind, you can begin to see 
the errors in your thinking. The
  important elements begin to take 
precedence as you center yourself in the
  eye of life.
Your affairs will take care of   themselves now, without effort on your part.
Some situations will come to a head   and many will be settled, but you 
should suspend all decision-making.   Let the cycle work for you: observe,
reflect and meditate. Find the serenity   offered by the vibrations of this
number.
  If you remain absorbed in physical 
matters now, you may suffer reversals
  in friendships and fortune. Sacrifices 
will be required through trial and loss.
  Rather than fight these forces, flow 
with them. You will obtain what you
  want by remaining passive, sympathetic 
and tactful, as this vibration
  achieves success only through acceptance.
TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 12. The Hanged   Man. The keyword for the
Hanged Man is reversal. The   corresponding symbol means oasis, sea, or
water. According to the alchemists,   water was the basis of all life, the fluid
substance that solidified into physical   forms. This substance which
emanates from the stars and suns,   is called astral fluid. The Hanged Man
symbolizes the first water of the divine power.
  Water was the first mirror in which 
the reflection always appears upside
  down. The significance of this card is 
that things are not as they appear on
  the surface. You must look beneath 
the surface for true understanding.
  The man is suspended by his foot, 
like a pendulum at rest. His crossed
  legs form a figure 4, indicative of key 
4, Reason. His elbows and head form
  a triangle with the point down which 
is an ancient symbol for water.
  The Hanged Man represents a person 
who is poised in consciousness and
  under perfect control. He is conscious 
of the one Power everywhere, yet
  centered in himself. He sees the 
trouble in the world; people unhappy in
  marriage, in trouble financially and 
lost because they have no goals - and 
  he knows it is because they all see 
things upside down. Yet they look at him
  and think that he is the one who is 
crazy. The Hanged Man’s philosophy
  sets him apart from the crowd and, at 
the same time, brings him peace of
  mind and perfect contentment. Perhaps 
the world should examine his views.
  The ideal is to grow out of materialism 
by transmuting animal passion to
  human compassion. The twelfth step 
sees a man reversed, hanging upside
  down by his foot. The law of reversal 
is the keynote here, reversal from
  living egocentrically to giving 
selfless service to others.
  ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: 
Jupiter (and Neptune). Vulcan
  (2) and Mars (1) in unison produce the 
Jupiter (3) influence in this 12 or 3
  number. Vulcan in mythology tended 
the forges in which expansion
  (Jupiter) occurred within the fire (Mars).
  Jupiter, as ruler of Sagittarius and 
the ninth house, represents expansion
  through higher education and deeper 
philosophy. In a 12 or 3, the purpose of
  this mental expansion is enlightenment 
in the abstract secrets of life. Many
  people remain in a dark room (Neptune), 
troubled by the ambiguities they
  see and experience. The camouflage 
(Neptune) in their lives can be
  destroyed only by seeking the true 
knowledge (Jupiter) which will allow
  them to erase the blind spots (Neptune) 
in their thinking, solve the enigmas
  (Neptune) of existence, and publish 
(Jupiter) their own truths (Jupiter).
  13/4 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER 
VIBRATION: 13 has always been
  feared as the death number, and indeed, 
it does represent death, but not in
  the ordinary sense. Death is merely 
change. When we are born into this life,
  we die from another level of existence. 
When we marry, we die as a single
  entity and are reborn as a duo. 
When the struggling artist receives
  recognition, he dies overnight as an 
unknown and is reborn as a famous
  individual. Change is simultaneous 
birth and death. The death connotation
  of 13 has arisen because most people 
respond to its lower side: immersion
  in fleshly desires and encapsulation 
in matter. Death then occurs through
  destruction and degeneration of the 
body. A few people respond to the
  higher side of 13, which involves 
complete satisfaction and attainment
  through regeneration or using the 
tremendous powers of this number to
  create and leave something of value 
with the world. There are no halfway
  measures with this number. There is 
enormous potential for ultimate 
  attainment and equally great potential 
for complete destruction. It’s all or
  nothing.
Your life as a 13 will be one   of constant change. As soon as a situation
seems settled and quiet, a new set of   circumstances will arise to replace the
old. Constant renewal keeps you on   your toes and impresses on you the
transitory nature of earthly things.   The instability of your material world
strengthens the bond between you and the   invisible world. Because of this
you need a secure home and secure   relationships therein, for you realize
that these bonds are true and lasting.
  You are not a leader in the ordinary 
sense of the word, but you do carry
  on for others. You take on their 
problems and bravely bear burdens with
  little complaint. Your idealism knows 
no bounds, and you can transform the
  most desperately lost cause into 
a worthwhile venture through your
  profound philosophy and understanding 
of the real values in life. Your
  limitless creative powers discover 
fertile soil where others see only a
  wasteland. You can take a dying 
business and, with creative ideas,
  organized talents and hard work, change 
it into a financially profitable
  venture. You can salvage a relationship 
that seems about to break and
  cement it more strongly than it was. 
Transformation is your keyword,
  whether it be in business, 
relationships or social causes.
  Your psychic abilities are marked, 
and you can see right through people
  and situations. It is not easy to fool 
you, and your perceptive analytical
  powers make you a formidable opponent.
If you are a negative 13, you dissipate   your creativity in pursuit of
transitory desires. Overindulgence   in drink, drugs, unsavory relationships
and destructive actions can make your life   and the lives of those around you
a complete disaster.
  Your bad temper and rash 
actions hurt others and can
  tear down those structures that you 
attempt to build. Stagnation and inertia
  set in and turn you into a revolutionary. 
But the change you bring about is
  destructive rather than regenerative. 
You are in a state of spiritual amnesia.
  You above all others have the ability 
to bring about peaceful changes that
  will improve the living standards of 
the world. You can take what most
  people would throw away, rework it 
and produce a useful and necessary
  product. This gives tangible proof of 
the existence and immortality of the
  soul, whose presence you have never doubted.
  13/4 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
Change, release, transformation.
  The number 13 is associated with 
suspicion and misconceptions. For an
  understanding of this, read the 1st 
paragraph of 13/4 as a personal number.
  Then turn back here to see how 13/4 
relates to you as a temporary vibration.
  Under a 13 you can expect the 
changes that will bring an end to
  conditions that no longer serve a 
useful purpose in your evolutionary
  scheme. Any rigid thought patterns 
must be altered and crystalized ideas
  must be shattered. Only through the 
death of present circumstance can you
  be released; freed to open the door 
for progress. Old ideas must be swept
  away to make room for new and better ones.
Be prepared to meet fresh ideas,   new people and stimulating conditions.
A change of plans, a new location and   different people open the birth
channel for new opportunities.   This is a reconstruction period, which can
bring great happiness if you make the   right decisions. The events that occur
may not necessitate physical action on your   part, but they will require you
to make the proper assessments.
  Change is the basis of earthly 
manifestation. Upon the wave of change
  you can sail to a new fertile land where 
a fresh lifestyle is possible. Release
  from the past is followed by a renewal 
which brings changes that promote
  growth. This is a time to depart, to 
travel and to grow. The cyclical force of
  nature reigns here, as the old is replaced 
by the new. The king is dead; long
  live the king.
TAROT SYMBOLISM:   Key 13. Death. The keywords corresponding to
this card are fish, fish’s mouth,   or mouth of the uterus. This symbol suggests
reproduction and birth, not necessarily into   this world but rather rebirth of
the consciousness into higher   planes. In the time of Christ, the fish symbol
represented those who lived in a Christlike way.
  The number 13 is sacred as is every 
multiple of 13. It connotes an initiate
  or one who is reborn through the mental 
powers of transmutation. There are
  twelve disciples, Jesus was the thirteenth; 
there are twelve zodiacal signs
  with the Sun at the center. Number 13 
is preserved in the measurements of
  the Great Pyramid.
Astrologically, this card is ruled by Scorpio,   which governs the
reproductive organs,   birth, death and transmutation.
The skeleton is the figure of Death,   which comes to all: king, man,
woman and child, without respect for station.   He rides astride a well-behaved white horse, a 
symbol of the purified desires and senses in
  submission to the cyclical rhythm.
However, the brilliantly shining   sun between the towers in the distance
promises eternal life. The life force does   not die, but merely changes form.
ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE:   Earth (and Scorpio). The
expansion (3) of the original life   force (1) ultimately produces form (4,
earth). And here in number 13,   appropriately ruled by Scorpio, we find that
Death must be understood, not feared. Of all   the zodiacal signs, Scorpio has
the power to transform the things   of earth, and bring about new life. Other
people’s rubbish becomes Scorpio’s fuel.
  Another important point that is 
strongly suggested here is that Death
  belongs only to the earth. 13 has always 
been feared as the death number by
  the uninitiated, but 13 reduces to a 
4, the number of the earth. The Bible
  tells us we are the salt of the earth. 
Salt crystalizes in cubes, and cube
  vibrates to 13. Our bodies are cubes 
that contain the immortal spirit, the
  everlasting life energy. The 
body dies; the essence goes on.
  Scorpio transforms the substance 
and gives it new form and new life.
  14/5 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER 
VIBRATION: The ancient symbol
  for the letter corresponding to the 
number 14 is a scribe, an individual who
  copied manuscripts by hand. Books were 
rare and very costly; therefore the 
  scribe was in a unique position to 
glean knowledge that was otherwise
  denied to all but the wealthy and favored. 
As a result the scribe was exposed
  to philosophy, religion, science and the 
arts: all kinds of ideas that created
  an educated mind.
  The number 14 has imbued you with 
a vivid imagination, teeming with
  ideas, energy and vitality. Narrow rigid 
thinking confuses you, because your
  exposure to the greater scheme of 
existence won’t allow your mind to be
  fettered. You are willing to consider 
all possibilities but you won’t accept
  theory, no matter how plausible, until 
you have tested it in actual practice.
  You have to see practical applications 
in order to verify the theory. You
  achieve understanding and truth 
through trial and error. You learn by
  experience, however, and you 
are always ready to listen.
  The sexual principle is active under 
a 14. You enjoy life’s sensual
  pleasures and can immerse yourself in 
fulfilling them. Temper the bodily
  passions and desires or your health 
may suffer. Overwork can bring on
  physical maladies and create a barrier 
of competition between your business
  and personal life. If you are cautious, 
you can be successful in speculation
  and in handling money. Business 
dealings can be extremely profitable if
  you select the proper combinations. 
Analyze all the contingencies and
  proceed with caution.
With this number your   strength will be tested. If you can overcome
yourself then there is no limit to your capacity   for achieving greatness. You
must maintain a balance among   the various aspects of your life. You like
continual excitement and motion but indulging   in one facet of experience to
the exclusion or neglect of   another will bring you more problems than
others would have. You must remain a positive   thinker, or you can create an
unstable foundation.
  The number 14 can be a difficult 
vibration, causing you to live for
  sensation in such a way that the 
physical appetites may harm you. Envy,
  jealousy and divorce are common. A 
negative 14 has a nervous impulsive
  nature which propels you into 
problematical situations.
  A positive 14 must learn to be more 
cautious, always on the lookout for
  the right mixture or perfect set of 
circumstances that will congeal into a
  proper blend of intellect and 
feelings. Once you have achieved this
  combination of energy, vitality and 
creativity, plus a superb comprehension
  gained through experience, you will be 
supplied with the necessary tools to
  bring inspired messages to the world.
14/5 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION:   Active sexual principle,
pregnancy, social and family   obligations, competition, a need to verify.
A variety of experiences will occur that urge   you to slow down and think
about your previous behavior.   You may need to modify your lifestyle and
control your desires and sexual appetites.   The sexual principle is active now
and can result in pregnancy. Or the   creative act may be channeled to bring
about a product of the mind, an invention,   painting, sculpture, book or
musical composition.
  Competitive situations may arise. In 
commercial or political enterprises,
  money and business dealings can be 
profitable if you are aware of all the
  alternatives. Be aware that with number 
14 there are risks involving the loss
  of property or business failure. Social 
and family obligations could be at the
  root of peculiar circumstances that 
will need careful consideration.
  Through concentration and the mental 
transference of your thoughts, you
  can easily influence others now. Your 
verbal suggestions can sway their
  decisions which can work to your 
advantage. You will gain through tact,
  diplomacy and persuasion. Listen to 
your dreams and inner promptings.
  ESP experiences may help you assess 
your situation and find the means to
  modify any unacceptable circumstances.
TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 14.   Temperance. The keyword corresponding
to this card is sustenance or establishment.   You should establish the
foundations of your belief   system through proof or verification. The
keywords verification and wrath show that   the desire to find the truth
surfaces from within, through   wrath (not temper, but strong and stem
anger). This process tempers one’s soul,   just as steel is tempered. We
become balanced by choosing the middle   path between the extremes of
action.
  Sagittarius rules key 14. The arrow of 
concentration of the fiery life force
  brings about the manifestation of the 
higher ideals, which leads to elevated
  states of consciousness.
The androgynous angel is a perfect   blending of polar opposites, of male
and female. It is an angel of the Sun,   the life force, as shown by the solar
disk on the forehead. The red wings depict   the fiery nature aspiring to
higher consciousness.
  The pool and the earth represent the 
subconscious and conscious minds,
  on which the angel maintains 
perfect balance. The mountain peaks
  symbolize attainment of wisdom and 
understanding. The crown in glory
  over them represents the 
culmination of the great work.
  This key teaches you to verify your 
destiny as a manipulator of the life
  power, the kundalini. This should be 
verified by actual practice and testing
  until you feel the presence within.
ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE:   Mercury (and Sagittarius).
The things of the earth (4) must   be understood as manifestations of pure
energy (1). Unless we can consciously   direct our mental energies (Mercury)
toward a deeper understanding of this   concept (Sagittarius), we cannot
possibly hope to develop along the   lines of spiritual consciousness.
We need accumulated experiences   to temper ourselves into something
more fitting, and a 14 or 5 vibration   supplies the necessary testing situations.
Anyone responding to this number will   surely be tested and should learn to
ask of each experience: “How can I use this?”
  “What lesson in tempering does 
this experience teach me?” 
  Strong anger is diluted; tempered 
by adding another quality, 
  such as forgiveness. The profound 
development that can result from 
  the proper handling of this vibration 
produces great wisdom and understanding.
  15/6 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER 
VIBRATION: You have a great deal
  of magnetism, plus a talent for 
obtaining money, gifts and favors from
  others. But at the same time you 
work for your possessions and good
  fortune. You are persevering and strong 
willed and always get what you go
  after. You are very conscious of other 
people’s foibles and weaknesses, and
  you may tend to take advantage of them. 
In the process of artfully carrying
  out your purposes, you may step on 
some toes. Your attachment to worldly
  status and possessions is the 
impetus for your driving ambition.
  You are a good student because you 
absorb knowledge easily and retain
  it. Knowledge thus gained allows you 
to proceed up the ladder of success
  with few slips, for you can learn from 
the mistakes of others. Your moves
  are calculated.
  If you are wise you will develop a 
philosophical attitude toward the
  material world. Although you pursue 
material rewards, you realize that
  worldly attachments and cares are 
ridiculous and can entrap you in a prison
  of restraint, limitation and suffering. 
You see people whose mistaken
  estimate of their possibilities results 
in lasting bondage. You pity those who
  prefer a comfortable lie to an 
uncomfortable truth, who prefer to believe
  that this world is all there is and 
that the individual can do nothing but
  endure. You see these people as negative 
15’s whose obstinate adherence to
  materialism brings heartache and 
emotional disturbance, which can upset
  the home and marriage. They must 
learn emotional control. Violence and
  revolution, terrorism and anarchy 
breed as a result of their negative
  concepts of what they are and life is. 
15 is virtue or vice; there is no middle
  path. You can attempt to use your 
knowledge and financial ability for
  negative purposes, or you can choose 
to see the paradox of materialism
  which at death leaves you with nothing. 
At death the delusion of outward
  appearance is erased; the grasping 
scrooge becomes the penniless penitent.
  Laughter physiologically and 
psychologically relieves pressure, lightens
  burdens and lifts the spirits. You should 
learn the art of laughing in the face
  of difficulties. Reflect on the wisdom 
expressed in a hymn to the Sun god
  Ra: “Thy priests go forth at dawn, 
they wash their hearts with laughter.”
  15/6 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
Indecision, bondage, freedom,
  laughter, discernment. The materialistic 
side of life is emphasized now.
  You may receive money and favors from 
others. Opportunities for progress 
  can come through a radical change in 
your lifestyle that releases you from
  present limitations and allows 
you a freer expression.
  Long held views may change, and newly 
found beliefs can set your mind
  at ease and eradicate old fears. You 
may have to make decisions and take
  decisive action. Under a 15, it is vital 
to decide whether the experiences of
  this period are limiting you or setting you free.
Be careful not to bum the candle at both ends   in an attempt to satisfy
your personal needs. Don’t   chain yourself to things or people who will
place you in servitude. You should be cautious   about signing contracts or
agreements at this time.
  Don’t allow outward appearance 
to cause heartaches, trouble in
  partnerships or ineffective action. 
Look beneath the surface and see the
  situation as it really is. 
Discernment is the keyword here.
  Learn to laugh at your own and other 
people’s weaknesses. By lightening
  the seriousness of your problems, by 
accepting the frailties of others and by
  looking beyond the limitations of 
circumstances, you can bring about
  peaceful and satisfying solutions. 
Laughter cleanses the soul and can lead to
  physical healing through spiritual understanding.
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 15. The 
Devil. Key 15 shows what happens
  when we fail to use discrimination. The 
Devil is a misconception of God, as
  God upside down or opposite. He 
represents the delusion of judging by
  outward appearances instead of by 
inner realities. He also represents
  religious dogmatism, which is 
ridiculous to the enlightened person.
  Therefore the keyword here is mirth. We 
should learn to laugh in the face of
  difficulties, for laughter or ridicule 
is sometimes the most effective defense
  against evil.
Capricorn, ruled by Saturn,   overshadows this key. The Saturn center at
the base of the spine is where the   kundalini force lies coiled, and it is the
life work of Capricorn to raise the kundalini,   and then teach others. 
The black background on this   card indicates ignorance, lack of light. The
inverted pentagram on the Devil’s forehead   is the symbol of black magic,
inverted power. His torch bums   wastefully and gives no light. The humans,
chained loosely to the half cube could easily   free themselves by refusing to
be bound by darkness and imperfect   knowledge, or half-truth, as
indicated by the half cube.
  This key means we are God incarnate, 
but all too often we play the role
  in an upside down position, as 
undeveloped people, chained in bondage to
  appearance.
ASTROLOGICAL   CORRESPONDENCE: Venus (and Capricorn). In
15 or 6 we find Mercury (5) working through   Mars (1) to produce the basic
Venus vibration (6).
  The Venus awareness of opposites 
finds fertile ground in key 15, which
  casts a false image of truth. If you can 
examine both sides of a situation or
  see beyond outward appearances, you 
can escape the bondage of adherence
  to the purely physical aspects of living.
Through Capricorn, the eye of discernment   raises you to the highest peak
of expression in the full light of day   at the apex of the natural horoscope.
Capricorn’s natural predilection for   prestige in the material world is
fulfilled by being elevated as a teacher   and example for others to follow.
16/7 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION:   You are a magnetic
individual. Your forceful personality   attracts others. Your talent for writing
and speaking aids in the clever expression of your   ideas. You are a clearsighted intellectual with 
the ability to assess circumstances easily and
  accurately. This can lead to a tendency 
to speculate which will not always
  bring you the desired results. 
Overconfidence can result in material loss.
  You may experience trials, defeats 
and the loss of material security.
  Sudden material and physical upsets 
are the outward manifestation of
  emotional discontent. Examine your 
life and your attitudes. Is your
  personality dominated by emotions? 
Have you had disappointments in love
  because of misplaced affections or 
illicit love affairs? Have your
  indulgences, your selfish and 
unsympathetic nature, brought about this
  emotional fall? If any of these are true 
you have allowed the material world
  to control you. Financial, professional 
and personal losses dominate your
  existence, and you experience 
telepathic invasion through your
  subconscious. Your desire for freedom 
and your impatience at restraints of
  any kind have brought on these many 
difficulties. Your subconscious is now
  urging you, through these calamities, 
to awaken the inner spiritual self, the
  real you. It is here, under extreme 
pressures, that a sudden bolt from the
  blue, an illuminating flash of insight, 
will lead the way to exoneration and
  solution.
If 16 is your Soul Number,   you may be atoning for a promiscuous past
when ideals were lost. Now you have to learn   truth and faithfulness. If you
learn freedom from dependence on   the illusory material world, you will be
awakened to the truth that lies deep within   your soul. This is the splendor of
the 16/7.
  Through silence and meditation you 
overcome all obstacles. You have the
  inclination, at this point in evolution, 
to become a mystic. Here the 16
  becomes the 7. And here, any material 
losses are meaningless, for you have
  become one with the Oneness.
16/7 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION:   Love affairs, health, accidents,
awakenings. The unforeseen and sudden   events of this period are intended
to overthrow existing conditions,   especially in a material sense. Erroneous
ideas and habits must be altered, and for some   this has to be done in a
forceful manner.
  There can be losses and setbacks in 
business and financial affairs. This is
  not the time to take speculative risks. 
You may lose a desired position or
  suffer a scandal in your present position. 
Selfish ambitions fall under a 16,
  and bankruptcy may result. In extreme 
cases imprisonment is possible.
  Deception and trouble in matters of 
the heart are likely. The love you
  give can be misplaced, and 
disappointments may result.   Separation from
close partners and trouble   in relationships come from your pride and
emotions. The result is personal isolation.
  Do not overwork now. An over-expenditure 
of energy will take its toll on
  your health. The energy operating during 
this cycle is intense; therefore, do
  not take risks. Be careful of accidents 
and conflicts with others. Number 16
  is not as bad as it seems at first. You 
can use the additional energy spurt
  during this period to plan wisely for 
the future. You are in touch with your
  intuition.
If you listen to the   generous advice of your inner self you can
formulate plans to be implemented in the   next cycle. Illuminating insights
may reveal the insubstantial nature of   the selfish materialistic approach and
spark your creative talents to work   toward a future goal which will
inevitably bring good fortune. Bright   prospects may arise suddenly. The
power for loss is great under a 16,   but so, too, is the potential for financial
gain, fame and prosperity. All the material   rewards are yours as long as you
are not obsessed with ownership.
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 16. The Tower. 
Mars rules this card in which
  the keyword is awakening. This comes 
as a clear flash of understanding, a
  bolt from the blue bringing awareness 
of the true nature of the self. What
  inspires fear in the mind of the ignorant 
liberates the enlightened, just as
  electricity frightens the primitive 
but is used constructively by the
  knowledgeable. A flash of lightning 
is another symbol of the electrical
  serpent force, or the kundalini, 
the Mars force in the body.
  The Tower, also called the Lightning-struck 
Tower, is the house of God,
  or the human body. It was also referred 
to as the Tower of Babel (Babble
  means confusion of understanding.) 
Lightning strikes the crown or head or
  place of understanding and knocks 
the man and woman out of the tower.
  This analogy depicts erroneous ideas 
being knocked out of the two parts of
  mind, conscious and subconscious, by 
the lightning of true understanding.
  The 22 yods or tongues of 
flame represent the 22 letters
  in this alphabet. These tongues of flame 
also refer to key 9, where the one
  yod is the Hermit, representing the 
response to primal will. When we
  respond to the primal will, we receive 
a flash of illumination which bears a
  message that awakens us to our true source.
ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE:   Moon (and Mars). Basic
desires (1, Mars) must be refined (6,   Venus) before they become reality in
the subconscious mind (7, Moon);   once the subconscious receives the
suggestion, the suggestion becomes   a reality in the world of thought. It is
only a matter of time before the suggestion   manifests in the material world.
Mars is the driving force within   any given mechanism, including the
human body. It also rules the head,   through Aries. After the kundalini or
Mars force within the body is driven up   the spine, there, in the head, final
illumination must take place.
  17/8 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are the
researcher, the scientist, the natural detective   who investigates the unseen
mysteries of life. You desire   truth and seek solutions to enigmas. You are
intuitive and fond of the occult. You delve   into the secret depths of the inner
consciousness in pursuit of hidden   knowledge. This relationship to the
secret forces of life instills in you a   quiet strength and an air of mystery.
Others see you as a deep individual,   as indeed you are.
You are an intellectual in the   beginning stages of mental unfoldment.
Your intelligence and introspection   necessitate periods of solitude in which
to meditate. Seeds germinate in darkness   before they burst into the light of 
day. Your ideas need the same germination   period in which to unfold. After
questions, research, meditation and   experimentation, your ideas begin to
take form.
  You possess insight and a fine mind. 
You are very successful in pursuits
  which require deep concentration and 
enduring mental application. You deal
  wisely in the material world and enjoy 
seeing the tangible results of your
  mental concepts and efforts. You have 
hope and faith in the future and
  courage in the face of difficulties. 
You are determined to overcome any and
  all obstacles. Compassion for others 
and a desire for peace and love among
  all people is a product of your deep 
understanding of the essence of life, an
  understanding which surpasses worldly 
considerations. Your spiritual love
  imbues you with good health.
If you are a negative 17 or 8 you are   stubborn. Doubts bring on faithlessness
and create a pessimism so that you can   see no promise or light in the world.
You have executive and leadership   ability that can lead to a distinctive
career. Researchers, discoverers, explorers,   executives and aviators come
under this number. You may   travel often by sea or air. Because of your
outstanding abilities, you may achieve fame and   a name that lives on after
you.
  17/8 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
Good fortune, rewards, travel,
  meditation, assistance. This is a fortunate 
vibration, for you will receive all
  types of assistance. Money, gifts, 
advancements and promotions are
  possible, and business and public affairs 
turn out profitably. Intellectual
  achievements will be rewarded. 
You could receive recognition for
  outstanding leadership. You 
are the star under number 17.
  If travel is in the picture, you could 
take a trip by sea or air. Medical
  problems will improve and you will 
enjoy good health. The law of action
  and reaction operating here proclaims 
that your positive attitude and
  buoyant hopes will be rewarded.
The help you receive now brings   a promise of a brighter day. Hope
springs within, and because you are   positively expectant, positive things
happen. You are determined to overcome   any obstacles and you do so.
Greater mental vitality and an   open channel to the unconscious help you
solve any problems. Your intuitive and   creative powers are pronounced, and
you should spend time in meditation,   where ideas that have long lain dormant 
can now begin to emerge into the light of   understanding. Secrets are
revealed to you.
  You must be very truthful with others. 
You are most persuasive now and
  your words can have a profound effect.
Don’t allow doubts to creep into your   mind, bringing on periods of
depression and pessimism. Delve   beneath the superficial irritants to the
deeper person, the true I AM within.
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 17. The Star. 
Fishhook, keyword for the Star,
  suggests the drawing of ideas from 
the universal subconscious. The hook
  relates to the subject selected for 
research or meditation. Revelation comes
  through meditation. You must still the 
conscious mind but keep a line on the
  subject chosen for meditation.
Aquarius rules this key, which   brings the age of revelation. The Star key
explains the fifth or celestial essence,   which is above and beyond the four
elements of fire, earth, air and   water. The great star has eight points
representing rotation. The seven lesser   stars refer to the seven bodily centers
which are really whorls of motion and   vibration. The ibis is a fishing bird,
again emphasizing searching and probing.
  The woman represents the subconscious 
mind which shows that all
  secrets are available if you fish in the 
proper manner. Her left leg, holding
  her weight, forms a right angle or square, 
hinting at the number 4, order and
  reason. Resting on the water, her right 
foot shows that the mind sustains her.
  She pours water, her mental powers, 
on land and sea, indicating the
  pouring of knowledge over humanity 
everywhere. The water on land 
  divides into five streams 
representing five senses.
  Ask yourself a question and seek the 
answer with calm expectancy. This
  is the right attitude for meditation 
and the proper method for gaining
  illumination.
ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE:   Saturn (and Aquarius). 17 has
the 7 of receptivity (the Moon)   and the 1 of concentration (Mars). Together
they equal 8, the Saturn correspondence and   the symbol of the kundalini
force rising from the Saturn   center at the base of the spine. These are
necessary attributes for the subconscious   mind to use in meditation.
The Aquarian influence brings   the revelation, which 17/8 represents, and
universal consciousness, both of which are   the ultimate goals of meditation.
18/9 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION:   You are an extremely
active person with an unusually   vivid imagination. Intense emotions and
feelings well up from your subconscious   and invade your conscious mind.
You can probably recall your dreams   in detail. Dreams are the workings of
the subconscious mind; through them,   you are in touch with the
illuminating guidance of your being.   You are receptive and intuitive and
receive impressions and hunches about   people and situations. As a child
you may have had nightmares which   caused restlessness and troubled sleep.
Your subconscious may have presented   fears in the form of monsters
chasing you in your dreams.
  It is vital that you take care of 
your body and health. You need rest,
  exercise, fresh air and sunlight; you 
would be wise to spend time in nature,
  mountain climbing, hiking, swimming, 
skiing, skating and so forth. Nature
  has healing powers to which you are 
attuned. Organizing your life transmits
  suggestions to your subconscious to 
organize your self. Your every action
  and thought affects your body physically; 
therefore, more than most people,
  your health depends upon your thoughts 
and lifestyle. Your intuitive powers
  are also dependent upon a healthy body.
You are a natural healer with a gentle   touch. You are tolerant of others
and would make a good counselor or   advisor. You are loyal to your friends
and your beliefs. You have hope and faith   in life and believe in justice,
integrity and truth.
  The hidden forces of life are active 
within you. You are sensitive to their
  undulating motion, and sometimes your 
body reflects this sensitivity in the 
  form of nervous habits.
If you are a negative 18 you   allow the subconscious to surface. You
become touchy and irritable. You may be   deceived by others and experience
losses because of hidden enemies and   unforeseen dangers. You may make
money from the conditions of war,   but only if you are not involved in
treachery or in promotion of the disputes.
  You have the power to heal. Your 
gentle presence soothes, and your
  intuitive insight mends the minds and 
bodies of those you touch. If you
  develop your healing potential, you 
can become an influential force in the
  relief of suffering.
18/9 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION:   Caution, dreaming, healing,
body care. You must slow down the   fast pace of your life. You need to pay
more attention to your bodily needs;   therefore, exercise outdoors, eat
properly and get sufficient sleep.
  Your dreams are active now, and any 
sleeplessness you experience is the
  product of an extremely vivid 
imagination. New plans and ideas are
  forming in your mind. Do not start new 
projects, but rather allow the ideas
  to germinate. They will blossom at a 
later date. Maintain your present status
  while considering changes, 
such as a new occupation.
  Healing forces are working beneath 
the surface, and your health can
  improve if you allow periods of quiet 
contemplation to calm your mind.
  Your thoughts have a potent control 
over your bodily processes now.
  Sign documents carefully or not at 
all, if possible. Be on guard against
  deception in business and difficulties 
in personal affairs. Family quarrels
  and accidents are caused by rashness 
or carelessness. Travel is not
  advisable. Mental unsettledness can 
bring a physical illness. Wars and
  revolutions are brought on by such vibrations.
You have a unique opportunity to   organize your life now. Set your
environment in order, clean your house,   organize your desk, finish up odds
and ends. Such actions will direct   your subconscious to set itself in order as
well. Then your dreams and visions will express   the future direction you
should follow.
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 18. The 
Moon. Evolutionary growth and
  development come under key 18. The 
keywords are organization and sleep.
  The function of the Moon is sleep, and, 
during sleep, waste is eliminated 
  and new materials are woven into the 
body. Consciousness continues while
  the upper brain cells rest. It is during 
sleep that our aspirations and efforts
  are being built into the body cells. 
What we think and do all day goes on
  influencing the body while we 
sleep. Every cell is a center of
  consciousness, and every cell contains 
spirit. Astrologically, Pisces, the
  final sign of the zodiac, rules this key.
  The shellfish coming out of the 
water represents the lower form of
  existence. Shaped like a scorpion, it 
indicates the creative force starting on
  the path of return, which leads to the 
mountain of attainment. The narrow
  path implies that concentration is 
necessary. It goes up, then down, but
  always rises higher at the next step. 
It is meant to show that spiritual
  unfoldment does not come all at once, 
but rather progresses gradually.
  The dog and wolf are of the same species, 
but one is wild and the other is
  domesticated (depicting nature aided 
by human consciousness). The towers
  are human handiwork. The 32 rays of 
the Moon indicate the 32 paths on 
  the Tree of Life, and the falling 
yods represent the descent of
  the life force from a higher plane 
into the material world. Many symbols
  here show that we can change the 
outward structure of things. They are
  proof that the same changes may be 
accomplished within the body through
  organization and cultivation.
ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE:   The Sun (and Pisces). The test
of Saturn (8) is energized and   supported by Mars (1), resulting in full
attainment and realization (9, the Sun).
  With the combination of the Sun and 
Pisces, final completion is possible
  under this number. The Sun, representing 
true individuality finds its own
  true identity in key 18, which 
symbolizes body consciousness. By
  combining body consciousness and control 
with realization of one’s self, all
  things are possible.
19/1 AS A PERSONAL   NUMBER VIBRATION: Your leadership
talents would be useful in public service.   You will be the head of projects as
the organizer, director or manager.   You are very expressive with words and
would make an effective speaker or   lecturer. Art and science may also
appeal to you, as well as agriculture,   nature and the simple pleasures of life.
Your tremendous vitality and intellect   create a mind capable of
overcoming any obstacles. You   collect, synthesize and regenerate past
errors into attitudes which assure your   future success. Here, your faith and
creativity constantly renew those   aspects of living which others ignore,
thereby ensuring your continuing growth.   You epitomize the quote from
Ecclesiastes 8 verse 1: “A   man’s wisdom maketh his face to shine.”
You attract love and money. A good marriage,   contentment in the home,
material happiness, honor and   esteem can be yours.
There may be many
  turns in your life that require new 
beginnings. You must master your
  emotions so that emotional upheavals 
and uncontrolled impulses do not
  cause material loss and failure.
If you are a negative 19, you lead a   double life. You create a positive
image of yourself as one type of   personality while living a secret life of
falsity and deceit. In this respect 19 is called   the spiritual fall. Your courage
is being tested. You must learn   independence and refrain from self-pity.
Number 19 is karmic: the equalizer and collector.
  As a positive 19/1 you have great 
endurance. You know that it is always
  darkest just before the dawn. Reason 
prevails. Many turn to you for
  guidance because you collect and 
distribute the power which gives light and
  life. You use this light to warm, to 
create, to urge growth and life, rather
  than to burn and scorch. You will find 
happiness, rewards and victory over
  adversities when a degree of 
adeptness has been attained.
  19/1 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
Love, marriage, rewards,
  obstacles overcome, new beginnings. 
19 is known as the love vibration,
  and marriage under this number is 
indeed fortunate. Happiness and 
  contentment are enhanced by good 
fortune in material affairs. You may
  experience happy reunions with friends 
and family. Rewards, honors, and
  esteem are manifestations of your 
past productive and creative efforts.
  This period brings a brand new start 
for you, promising liberation and
  prosperity. Your energy, drive and 
ambition run high, urging you to step out
  on your own. Be independent, take a 
chance, for luck shines upon you. Any
  obstacles now can be overcome. New 
beginnings have life-energizing
  forces behind them, which promote 
growth and assure success.
  You must restrain impulsive actions 
and prepare future plans carefully. If
  you indulge your personal desires, you 
could cause difficulties for others,
  broken engagements, invalid or troublesome 
contracts and loss of personal
  possessions. The future looks very 
uncertain to someone who uses number
  19’s energies negatively.
Watch every opportunity and keep   a positive faith in your own abilities;
then you can achieve whatever goals   you pursue. Great happiness and
satisfaction are possible here. The   choice, as always, is yours.
TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 19. The   Sun. The Sun means face or
countenance. Face implies head,   one who takes the lead, as the head of an
organization. This card also brings to a   head all the potencies of the life
power. The keyword is regeneration.   We renew our bodies when we renew
our minds. “Be ye transformed by the   renewing of your mind that ye may
prove what is the good and perfect   will of God.” (Romans 12 verse 2).
Astrologically, the Sun rules this key,   bringing light and life, symbol of
the divinity, the great divine power.   We must control and adjust our lives
through the Sun’s action.   As the ancients knew, the powers themselves are
neither good or bad; it is how they   are used. The power of the Sun is not
just a physical energy but also a   living power. What we see in the Sun is
identical with the spiritual power behind   the Sun. Everything on earth is a
manifestation of the Sun.
  The twenty-one rays of the Sun 
represent the twenty-one keys of the
  Major Arcana in the Tarot. The 
four flowers symbolize organized
  development: mineral, vegetable, 
animal and Adam-consciousness.
  Sunflowers always face the sun to 
draw their power, as we should do to
  develop our consciousness.
The nude child astride the horse has   sublimated the animal desires and is
a symbol of the naked truth and an   understanding of things as they really
are. “Except as ye become as little children,   ye cannot enter the kingdom of
heaven...” (Matthew 18 verse 3).
  ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: 
Mars (and Sun). The personal
  energy, the basic life force and the 
driving instincts of Mars must be
  controlled, channeled and raised to 
a higher level through the developed
  awareness and consciousness of the true 
life power, the Sun. All our energy
  comes from the Sun, and we in turn 
must radiate the energy we receive.
  Number 19 or 1 individuals must heed 
the advice given in the Bible: “Let
  your light shine,” (Matthew 5 verse 16).
20/2 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION:   You will be faced
with many decisions in   your lifetime. You must learn to make judgments
based on reason, not appearance. When measuring   or sizing up people, see
their works and not their   reputations. Outward appearances can be
deceiving, so you must exercise thoughtfulness   before any final judgments
are made.
  You like to control the people in your 
circle of influence and prefer to
  shape things to the ends which 
you deem worthy. Such a position 
  necessitates choices; therefore, you are 
constantly tested: Should I do this or
  that? Is it wise to take this path or that 
path? Shall I go with the new or stick
  with the old? Deep within, you have 
an abiding knowledge of opposites;
  therefore, you are continually confronted 
with the need to make choices.
  As a result, your life is one of 
adaptation and renewal. New plans, new
  purposes and new ambitions present 
a continuing scenario demanding
  decisive action. This cyclical 
process creates the awakened human
  personality because the moment of 
judgment is the same as the moment of
  awareness. You cannot make a 
decision until you have weighed and
  measured all the facts and arrived at 
an awareness of the situation. Through
  decisive action you develop yourself 
and overcome the difficulties in life.
  Let your conscience guide you.
  20’s have the power to make or break, 
save or slay. If you are a negative
  20 you fear death and change from 
familiar habit patterns. You must learn
  control over your emotions. Your 
weakness brings on poor health,
  disillusionment, loss of material goods 
and separation from those you love.
  As a positive 20, you constantly 
renew your life through the many
  decisions you must make, increasing 
your realization and awareness of the
  perpetual adaptations that life requires.
20/2 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION:   Turning points, decisions,
awareness, adaptability,   reconstruction. Sudden events require you to
make a decision that could be a turning point   in your life. A change of
location, a new job or fresh   relationships demand new thoughts, feelings
and actions from you. Be able to see the   alternatives, the pros and cons. In
this way you will learn much about   yourself and how adaptable you are. If
you accurately weigh and measure your   present situation or any situation
presented to you during this period,   you will formulate a profitable plan that
can be implemented in the near future.
  Unless you act decisively to put your 
ideas to practical use, the influence
  of number 20 can make you restless 
and uneasy. Do not remain idle, and
  don’t waste time. You are experiencing 
a period of growth; future
  realizations are now germinating. 
Ingest, assimilate and create form from
  the energies operating here. It is a 
fine planning period. Come to reasoned
  conclusions, and the cyclical force 
will see your plans manifested soon.
  Do not resist the need for change. 
Remain adaptable, use your common
  sense, and come to a logical conclusion. 
Then you have fulfilled the 
  requirements of this period.
TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 20.   Judgement. The key symbols for this card
are tooth, fang, and serpent. An ancient   adept was called a serpent, and
when we want to invoke silence,   we pronounce the sound of the letter for
this key: Sh. This indicates the silence   of the wise. “Be ye wise as
serpents” (Matthew 10 verse 16).
  Teeth break food and prepare it for 
digestion. Wisdom, which is kept
  silent, destroys the forms of the outer 
world and reveals the hidden nature
  of things so that you may 
absorb the spiritual essence.
  The cobra was the sacred symbol of 
Egypt and India. Its venom attacks
  every cell of the body instantly. The 
serpent’s fang conveys the poison. The
  analogy is that wisdom can be like 
acid which instantly eats away
  everything false. Therefore, the 
keyword for this card is realization.
  Astrologically, it is ruled by Vulcan. 
When we have gained realization of
  spiritual things, our personal 
consciousness is ready to blend with the
  universal consciousness. We then 
realize our oneness with God and our
  unity with all humanity. This state 
of consciousness begins with a mental
  grasp of the real world, where our 
attitude is the reverse of most people’s
  because we identify ourselves with 
the One Reality. Our subconscious
  minds are dominated by true will.
Our judgment day is the day we have   reached our ability to judge the true
from the false. The card represents   the call to judgment day. The angel
Gabriel calls those who are ready to   hear the truth which shall set them free
and give them new life. Stone coffins,   the human body, arise from the deep.
They are black when closed, from lack of light,   or truth. The 3 states of 
consciousness arise: man,   consciousness; woman, subconsciousness; and
child, super consciousness. In older versions   of the Tarot, their arms spell
the word lux or light. They   have come into illumination.
ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE:   Vulcan (and Saturn). Vulcan
is doubly emphasized here through the   double digit 20 (Vulcan is number 2)
and through the base digit 2.
  In mythology, Vulcan was thrown from 
heaven. He became the keeper of
  the flame, tending the forges of heaven 
and earth. He was also known as the
  master craftsman. Despite the lameness 
resulting from his fall, he traveled
  frequently between heaven and earth.
The analogy in the myth represents the   fall of our spirit into form, ruled
by Saturn. The spirit’s freedom is   hampered by the physical body. The fiery
life force must be well tended by keeping   open the line of communication
between the body and the spirit.
  Vulcan may eventually be assigned 
to Virgo, the perfect servant and
  tender of health, as was Vulcan. 
Artisans are also assigned to Virgo.
  In 20, the God power 0, works through 
Vulcan, 2, to bring about the
  union of what appears, in the physical 
form, to be separate parts; spirit and
  matter.
21/3 AS A PERSONAL   NUMBER VIBRATION: This is a number of
general good fortune. You have talent,   charm, and luck, all of which bring
success. A good memory and a positive   attitude toward life are the basis of
your luck. Advancements, honor and recognition   are possible during your
lifetime.
  You are patient. The limitations 
that most people fear become the
  cornerstone for your successes. Your 
administrative ability is enhanced
  because you know that the only way to 
rule nature is to first obey its rules,
  its limitations. Adherence to the orderly 
progression of things assures your
  triumph in all pursuits. The act of 
concentration is a sort of limitation, and
  concentration is the basis of science. 
You see the necessity of limits in the
  evolution of life and can validate 
these beliefs in scientific pursuits.
  The arts may call you, and many 
21’s have enjoyed literary success
  because they are so expressive. You 
have achieved the union of wisdom and
  love through past efforts and may now 
desire to reveal these truths in an art 
  form. Your professional pursuits 
may require changes of residence.
  Traveling and moving satisfy your 
innate need for liberation and freedom.
  If you are a negative 21, you fear 
change of all kinds. You lack vision and
  become greedy and selfish. Your tenacity 
assures eventual loss, as others
  manage to take away the very things 
that give you security. You are
  stubborn and refuse to learn life’s lessons.
You can be an example for others   through service and material
attainment. You will make a mark in   life. Others see you as the ultimate
realization of the personality to   which they wish to evolve. 21 is the
mystical number of the cosmic consciousness.
  21/3 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
Travel, change, rewards,
  success, new worlds. This is a very 
potent period in which the old order
  changes, making way for the new. The 
newly revealed world offers ultimate
  realization of your plans, hopes and 
wishes; therefore, do not overlook
  opportunities that arise now.
Plans already in progress may come   to a successful completion, with
accompanying rewards. Those plans   still in the thinking stages should be
carried out now, as the potential for success   is high in this period. You can
accomplish what you desire.
  Travel may be part of this cycle, and 
faraway places lure you. The desires
  for freedom, self-expression and pleasure 
urge you to look to distant places
  for fulfillment. A change of jobs 
and/or residence may result from your
  present thinking.
Your subconscious is developing   at a pace faster than usual during this
period, along with a growing sense   of security and protection. Many
marriages take place under a 21/3. Mental   or physical investments made
here bear fruit.
  Those who react negatively must guard 
against losing emotional control.
  They see family responsibilities as 
burdens. They experience delays and
  restrictions and neglect to grasp 
offered opportunities. For them, all
  situations must be examined carefully. 
Legal counsel should be employed in
  business dealings because 
material loss is possible.
  For you, this period is one of reward. 
Realize that the opportunities
  opening for you now can 
fulfill your future dreams.
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 21. The World. 
The key concept for this card
  is a mark or cross that has equal arms. 
A cross is sometimes used in place of
  a signature, therefore it takes on this 
meaning also. The symbology here is
  cosmic consciousness, which is the 
final seal of the great work here
  represented. At this point we have 
gained control over ourselves and our
  environment. Right decisions are now 
natural, and the One Power becomes
  the central reality in our lives.
Saturn rules key 21. The Saturn center   at the base of the spine, called the
sacral plexus, is the storehouse of   excess energy left from each day’s
activities. Saturn has been considered   a malefic; however, it can help build
for the future if one uses the energies in   the sacral plexus for constructive
action.
  In mythology, Saturn was the father 
or the god who ate his children; this
  means that the cosmic consciousness 
swallows up all lesser
  consciousnesses. The bull, lion, eagle 
and man represent the four fixed
  signs of the zodiac and indicate that 
the laws of the universe are fixed and
  orderly. The wreath in the form of a 
zero or egg or seed is that from which
  all things issue forth. This is the 
divine power. The dancing figure is
  androgynous, a unity of opposite 
polarities; however, the veil hides this
  fact, showing that cyclicity also brings 
about this androgynous state. The
  figure stands on air, self-supported 
and perfectly balanced.
  This picture represents the dance of 
life, which is never ending. 21/3 
  is a new heaven and a new earth or a 
new mind and a new body. When we have
  renewed ourselves through study and 
practice, the old order will change.
  New plans and a new outlook will prevail.
  ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: 
Jupiter (and Saturn).
  Traditionally, the conjunction of Jupiter 
and Saturn prevails over the birth
  of avatars and holy persons, those who 
bring a message of inspiration to the
  world. Here this combination of planets 
seeks to unite the things of earth,
  under the rulership of Saturn, with 
the wisdom of the higher mind, under
  the control of Jupiter. Only then can 
Saturn’s malefic hold on many people’s
  lives be transformed into the highest 
achievement which Saturn has to offer
  while in the physical body to bring 
about elevation to the apex of the
  horoscope, the sacred spot closest 
to the Sun, the One Source.
  22/4 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER 
VIBRATION: This is one of the
  four master numbers (11, 22, 33, 44), 
and it can be experienced as either a
  22 or a 4, or as a fluctuation 
between the two during your lifetime.
  You have the potential to accrue vast 
wealth and power on a world-wide
  scale. Your greatness can be achieved 
through resources, including people.
  You are the philanthropist whose fortune 
gained from material achievement
  is used to build a better world.
Your originality allows you to create   solutions to problems that others
consider unsolvable. You have a   genius for thinking in broad terms while
always arriving at practical solutions.   You are hard working, honest in
dealing with people, and above all,   ethical. You are a master at directing
others but be careful never to exploit   them for selfish reasons. Overwork
and a desire for power and control   can create a negative 22 whose potential
for evil can produce a ruthless and even   infamous type. Overwork brings on
emotional difficulties.
  You have strong opinions and a great 
deal of wisdom, which is always
  directed to practical uses. You can 
contribute to shaping the destiny of the
  world through industry, 
politics or the professions.
  Firmness in friendship and all 
relationships, including marriage, provides
  the secure base from which you 
meet the world. You have enormous
  leadership and policy-making abilities. 
With effort, of which you are
  extremely capable, you will become 
one of those financial tycoons whose
  name lives on through good 
works that benefit millions.
  22/4 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
Travel, plans, advancements,
  your dreams come true. 22 is a master 
number and the ancient numerical
  value for a circle. As such it implies 
completion, fulfillment and cyclicity. 
  Under a 22, you are reaching your 
goal; the fulfillment of your secret
  desires can become a reality. Success 
on a huge scale and attainment of
  those impossible dreams are very 
possible. You should make those big
  plans, dare the mighty deeds you 
have only contemplated up to now.
  Traveling toward a goal can also suggest 
physical travel, which is a distinct
  possibility here.
Make sure your concepts are   well organized and practical. Think in large
sweeping terms, and go to the head person   with your creative ideas. They
have a good chance of being accepted   now. Many people can benefit from
the ideas you present under a 22,   and as a result, you may be given a top
position. You are now the known expert in   your field, and others come to
you for opinions and advice.
  This is a very tense period when 
you will be dealing with groups of
  people. Guard against extremes; do not 
be too extravagant with money, and
  do not speculate in uncertain enterprises. 
Stay away from gambling. Deal
  only with practical matters during 
this period. Overindulgence may cause
  the dissolution of affairs which 
otherwise have good potential.
  If in doubt about any matter, consult 
a professional. Do not trust just your
  own judgment. Once all the facts 
are collected, rely upon your own
  intuition, which is based on reason, to 
supply you with proper decisions. It
  can all be yours during this 
powerful material period.
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 0; and 22). 
The Fool (before and after). The
  master number 22 holds a unique position 
in the Tarot deck. Theoretically,
  the Major Arcana begins at key 1 and 
continues through key 21. The Minor
  Arcana begins at 23, the King of Wands, 
and continues on to 78, the Ten of
  Pentacles. The Fool, as key 0, stands 
by itself, representing the God force.
  22 would seem to be missing; however, 
since cyclicity is the essence of life,
  there can be no ending. Therefore, the 
Fool, key 0, is the life force before
  entering manifestation, and 22 is that 
same key 0, the Fool, having walked
  the 21 keys of the Major Arcana to 
complete that full cycle and step once
  more beyond the present incarnation. 
22 is an ancient numerical symbol for
  a circle, and therefore represents the 
Alpha and Omega, by which the Lord
  described Himself in the Bible.
The word fool comes from the Latin,   follis, meaning a bag of wind.
Every genius is called a fool at   some time, and that which contains air or
breath could be called a bag of wind;   therefore, we are the Fool in that
sense. The Fool is the super-conscious,   pictured here as having room to take
one more step.
  This indicates that we never come 
to the limit of our potentials.
  The white Sun is the universal radiant 
energy eternally rising, for it can
  never reach its zenith. The mountains 
indicate attainment. They are cold and
  uninteresting to many, but from their 
peaks melting snow feeds the streams
  and makes the valley fertile. So, 
too, ancient wisdom will feed your
  consciousness and transform your life.
The Fool’s wreath symbolizes victory.   His wand is a measuring tool by
which we continually evaluate our   accomplishments. His wallet contains
memories of the past, and the eagle   on the wallet symbolizes the awakening
of higher vision toward loftier aspirations.
  The dog under the Fool’s control is 
the subhuman forms of life that are
  elevated by the evolution of the 
consciousness. The white rose in the Fool’s
  left hand indicates that his desire is 
pure or spiritual and untainted by lower
  desires and passions.
The Fool here is the cosmic life   force about to descend, inexperienced,
into the world of manifestation.
  ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: 
Earth (and Uranus). Since the
  master number 22 reduces to a 4, the 
earth holds dominion in this vibration,
  coupled with Uranus, which is 
assigned to key 0, the Fool.
  Consciousness is a state of mind. The 
presence of Uranus here links the
  super conscious to the earthly power 
indicated by the 22 or 4. A blending of
  spiritual conscious awareness with the 
proper use and control of the world’s
  material offerings, including the body 
itself, gives the perfect state of being.
  Once this has been achieved, the 
individual is no longer bound by earthly
  considerations but merely uses 
them with reverence and respect.
  TWO: THE WANDS.
23/5 AS A PERSONAL   NUMBER VIBRATION: This number can
lead you to honor, fame and material   gain. Your strength is in your material
ideas. You exercise intelligence in your   actions and wisdom in your control.
With your quick, clever brain,   you learn easily and retain what you have
learned. You also have the courage and daring   to enforce your ideas in the
material world. You enjoy   exercise. Physical agility maintains good
circulation and increases the brain power;   therefore, your agile body and
energetic mind make you a sure   success. In addition, you possess healing
abilities. You are gifted in speech and   writing and may be known as the
monarch of ideas. Thus a career in   communications is possible. Researchers
also come under 23 or 5.
  Because you are loyal and passionate, 
you enjoy a good marriage and
  children. Inheritances may come 
to you during your lifetime.
  You thrive on constant change and 
adventure. Learn to make each change
  a step in a constructive direction. You 
are sometimes headstrong and hasty;
  learn to handle this fiery energy 
within, and direct it accordingly.
  Your friendly, honest approach to others 
and your ambitious nature attract
  people in a position to aid your 
progress. Through your superiors you will
  have opportunities to better yourself. 
This is a karmic reaction brought on
  by your willingness to help others.
If you are a negative 23 or 5 strict   adherence to principles can create a
severe, patronizing personality. You   become selfish and resort to outbursts
of temper when life does not go your way.
  As a positive 23 or 5 you can look 
forward to a comfortable life, surrounded
  by a loving family, material comforts 
and the honor and esteem of your
  peers.
23/5 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION:   Protection, contracts, travel.
There are powerful protective forces   around you now to guide you into safe
ports. Follow the advice you receive   from superiors or those in a position to
know more about the subject in question   than you do. Then your pursuits
and goals will be successful.
  You could inherit money and material 
goods through settlement of an
  estate or legal proceedings. You may 
enter into new contracts which could
  alter your life, and such agreements 
may require quick decisions on your
  part. Marriage is one such contract that 
reacts favorably to this vibration.
  The changes now occurring may result 
in travel. It may be to fulfill the
  obligations of your agreements or 
because good fortune has increased your
  finances and allowed you this extra pleasure.
If others oppose your ideas, be careful   not to allow the difference of
opinion to degenerate into quarrels.   A severe approach can alienate friends.
Be truthful and helpful during this period.   Your attitudes will be well
rewarded through material gain,   peace of mind and contentment.
TAROT SYMBOLISM: King of Wands.   The seated figure looking at the
world indicates a mental attitude   of looking toward the future, possibly
deciding to change his point of view.   Decorated with lions, the background
screen indicates that the fixed powers   of the divine law are behind him, and
he is aware they are his to use. Salamanders   represent spirits living in the
element fire and denote that the king   is able to handle fire; he can control
the fire of the self and nature. He is holding   the live wand of spiritual
power.
  ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: 
First decan Aries. The King of
  Wands presides over the first decan 
of Aries. (A decan is a ten-degree
  division of the zodiacal wheel; 
each of the 12 signs spans thirty
  degrees.) This Mars-ruled decan 
combines to make this a strong, driving
  force. You learn easily. You want to 
lead and be at the head of things. You
  have an abundance of ideas and aspire 
to improve existing conditions. You 
  are ready to gain all the knowledge 
you can and you enthusiastically grasp
  opportunities to progress intellectually 
as well as physically. Your creative
  and inventive ability may express itself 
in the direction of science or other
  mechanical pursuits.
24/6 AS A PERSONAL   NUMBER VIBRATION: With your magnetic
personality and powers of suggestion   over other people, you can attract all
the material comforts and nurturing   relationships anyone could possibly
desire. People with authority and people   of influence are always anxious to
see to your needs. The help you   receive promotes your success.
This is a fortunate love and family   vibration. You are a good companion
and helpmate, and you love your home,   children and nature. Pride, ambition
and a love of life make you a lively   mate whose fulfillment comes through
creating an abundant lifestyle where all   things may be nurtured and grown.
You may have many children whose   religious, scholastic and physical
growth you will carefully promote.
  You are a stately individual, kind, 
generous and patient. This number
  allows full expression of the harmony 
you seek with others. A desire for
  truth and justice sets you in a position 
where others see your sincerity and
  respect you for it.
You are a success socially   and financially. You have
sound business judgment and   are practical with money.
Visions, dreams and ESP   experiences bring you much insight and
enhance your creative mind. You may also   have clairvoyant experiences.
If you are a negative 24 or 6,   you may be jealous, unfaithful and
domineering to loved ones. You are stubborn,   and when crossed, you can be
revengeful.
  24/6 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
Family matters, gain, love. This
  is a highly favorable period in 
which all undertakings can terminate
  successfully. You gain financially with 
the help of people in authority or
  through members of the opposite sex. 
Your success can depend upon these
  very people. Now is the time to 
make plans. You may have flashes of
  insight on how to proceed in the future.
24 or 6 is a love vibration. Marriage   and the birth of children are possible,
and many matters concerning the family arise   now. Your happiness depends
on love.
  You are experiencing a period of 
harvest, the reaping of the seeds you
  have sown in the past. You may receive 
the respect of your peers for some
  efforts. Financially, you stand to 
gain from sound practical judgment in
  business dealings.
Understand the feelings   and emotions of other family members, and be
available when they need your wise counseling.   Be generous, helpful and
patient with those near you,   and your efforts will be rewarded.
TAROT SYMBOLISM: Queen of Wands.   The Queen holds the wand of
live power in her right hand;   the sunflower which always turns to face the
Sun is in her left hand. The sunflower refers   to the Leo decan of Aries. The
black cat in front of her throne   represents clairvoyant powers. The 2 lions
on the backdrop and the carved lions on her   throne again suggest Leo and
also bring in key 8, Strength.   The triple peaks in the background depict
attainment on three planes of consciousness.
  ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: 
Second decan Aries. The
  Queen of Wands presides over the 
second decan of Aries which is the Leo
  decan, presided over by the Sun. 
This decan gives a high-spirited and
  ambitious temperament. It is a fortunate 
number in that your generosity and
  magnanimity are rewarded in kind 
by those with whom you deal. You
  attract success and assistance because 
of your sunny, optimistic outlook.
  25/7 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER 
VIBRATION: You are strongly
  intuitive and often have prophetic 
dreams. You may be clairvoyant as well.
  These are qualities you have developed 
by overcoming many obstacles.
  Your early years may have been difficult, 
and these trials may have helped
  you overcome instability. You had 
to awaken to the truths within and
  thereby acquire wisdom. What others 
see in you as intuition is merely a
  developed talent of observation and 
attention to details, which allows you to
  piece together the whole and arrive at 
conclusions much faster than others.
  If past experiences have not taught you 
to develop these qualities, then you
  should begin now; otherwise, your 
impulsive nature can turn challenging
  situations into conflict.
You have an alert, energetic mind,   which always seeks new enterprises,
ideas and locations. You like nature   and may prefer to live in the country
rather than the city, perhaps near the   water. Your adventurous disposition
tends to make you more mobile   than most, and you may often change your
place of residence to fulfill this wanderlust.
  A pioneering spirit and a quest 
for knowledge bring out the fiery
  missionary zeal within you, and you 
become a spiritual crusader. Remain
  alert to various ways to overcome 
the obstacles you will meet and work
  hard to follow through with the job; 
then you will achieve leadership in any
  business or enterprise you embrace.
If you express the negative 25 or   7 it will cause conflict and a loss of
energy. The job never gets done. Laxity and   unfulfillment can then bring on
cruelty.
  25/7 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
Change of residence, trials,
  health, success after difficulty. You 
may experience trials and difficulties 
  now which will make you draw upon 
your energy reserves. Success can be
  yours, but it won’t be handed to 
you: it comes after hard work and
  perseverance.
During this period, use your mental   energy positively and constructively.
Visualize what you want and keep the   thought ever present in your mind.
Hasty actions can cause conflicts.   Sudden decisions may necessitate a
change of residence, a trip or some   other kind of movement. Travel should
be undertaken with care; the wise person   does not stay at home but travels
cautiously. Annoying health conditions   may arise and need attention.
Sign all documents only after   consulting an expert in the appropriate
field. Then proceed, assured that your   enterprises will be very successful,
because you have taken into account all   details and mitigating
circumstances.
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: Knight of Wands. 
The Knight is dressed in his
  suit of armor and is riding to the 
conquest. This indicates his burgeoning
  thoughts about a new enterprise and his 
desire to win. His crusade could be
  a search for the truth, because his 
weapon is the wand of divine power. The
  salamander symbol on his robe indicates 
his ability to handle the fiery
  energy.
ASTROLOGICAL   CORRESPONDENCE: Spring (Aries, Taurus,
Gemini). The Knight of Wands presides   over the spring season, from the
time that the Sun enters the sign Aries   until it reaches the summer solstice at
0 degrees of the sign Cancer.
  The Sun is exalted in Aries, and its 
power awakens new life as nature
  responds to its wanning rays. Like 
nature, at this time of year you gain
  strength through mastering obstacles. 
There can be difficulties as you
  struggle to meet the Sun’s promise, 
but you persevere through hard work.
  26/8 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER 
VIBRATION: This is a karmic
  number. It designates a life in which 
you learn about the world around you
  through experience. Stressful situations 
eventually develop your self-confidence,   at which time positive action 
brings prosperity and fulfillment.
  You have enthusiasm, courage and a 
desire for power. The power will come
  when you have learned wisdom and 
developed strength through self-control.
  Your impulsiveness involves you in 
sudden love relationships. That same
  impulsiveness causes irritation in others, 
creating tense situations. You must
  learn self-control, patience and 
endurance. You must be subservient to the
  laws of nature before you can master them.
  You are a gifted speaker who could 
become a lecturer, debater or
  diplomat. Communication is vital 
because your wide-angle vision allows a
  view of the whole, while others are 
mired in the parts. Your ideas are
  looking for assimilation; only through 
communication will your concepts
  find realization. Through interactions 
with others you will learn to form
  enduring relationships which will 
fortify your position in life. Your
  relationships are decidedly karmic 
and will be either destructive or
  supportive, depending on your past actions.
You could excel in sports, especially running,   sprinting, high jumps,
skiing, gymnastics, etc. You most   likely prefer outdoor sports, pursuits
which involve the legs, coordination   and a sense of balance.
26/8 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION:   Messages, marriage, gestation,
karma. Expect some kind of message,   tidings or good news. Since this is a
karmic period, you may meet a marriage   prospect or someone who will
figure importantly in your   future. Many pregnant women are under this
vibration, suggesting a karmic relationship   between the child and parent or
parents.
  This is a good time to develop 
your powers of expression. Take an
  elocution course or learn a foreign 
language. Study a subject that will
  broaden your horizons and 
enhance your experience.
  26 or 8 is a splendid financial 
vibration; however, use good judgment.
  Check out all the details before 
making investments or going into
  partnership or agreements.
As a negative vibration,   you may receive bad news of some kind.
Partnerships or contracts may be broken and   losses can occur, causing
indecision.
  If positive, expect the very best. 
Beautiful relationships can be formed
  now, ensuring a lifetime of 
happiness and fulfillment.
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: Page of Wands. 
The standing youth seems to be
  taking the measure of his power. He 
feels his inner strength but has yet to
  test and prove it on the open plain 
before him. Though he wears the
  salamander robe of protection with 
confidence, he nevertheless mentally
  inspects the working of divine power in his wand.
ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE:   Third decan Aries. The third
decan of Aries brings in the   Sagittarian co-rulership of Jupiter. You have an
energetic nature and are fond of outdoor sports.   Your benevolent, jovial and
expansive nature tends to bring   worldly prosperity, giving you the power to
control others. You maintain an attitude of   self-confidence even under stress
because of the Jupiterian vibrations   present here.
27/9 AS A PERSONAL   NUMBER VIBRATION: This is a number of
great spiritual strength. The beginnings   of a deep spiritual understanding
endow you with insight and prescience.   You should follow your own
intuitions rather than allow yourself   to be swayed by others. You are just, 
and wise; you wish to maintain harmony   and to help others mentally,
physically and spiritually.
  You have a fertile, creative mind and 
a love of beauty and art. Energetic,
  inventive ideas bring unusually successful 
results after many attempts and
  changes. Others seek you out because 
you always have an original approach
  to the solution of their problems.
Your creativity extends to the   physical plane: you will produce an
abundant family. Civilizations are built   upon the stuff of which you are
made.
  All business enterprises will succeed 
beyond expectation with you at the
  helm. Your mental strength and positive 
attitude endow you with the power
  to act independently. You impress other 
people so that they are willing to
  follow you and implement your ideas. 
Your influence over others, coupled
  with an ability to lead, 
brings you wealth and comfort.
  If you are a negative 27 or 9, you 
are confused and indecisive, never
  knowing what path to take. You are also 
intolerant of the failing, or what
  you deem the failing, of others.
You have a tremendous opportunity   in this lifetime to develop your ideas
in a tangible way. There is no question   that your mental capabilities are
great. Now you must bring your ideas   out of the realm of concepts and
make them a reality. Create useful   products that will benefit the world.
27/9 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Birth,   marriage, start of new
business. Things are growing,   blossoming, and bearing fruit under this
vibration. It is a fertile, promising   period in your life. Relationships bloom
and bring deeper understanding; therefore,   marriage and close partnerships
are a probability here.
  If you have been planning to open a 
new business, patent an idea, have a
  showing or present any kind of creative 
enterprise, now is the time to do so.
  This vibration brings together all the 
ingredients for a successful promotion.
  You will enlist the aid of others. They, 
in turn, will be more than happy to
  see that you receive what you need, 
because your positive attitude is
  infectious.
This could very well   be the beginning of your fortune. The events
occurring now will ultimately bring the wealth,   prosperity and goals that
you seek.
  A negative reaction could bring delays, 
postponed travels, the termination
  of an existing business or 
generally unhappy feelings.
  By expressing a positive, expectant 
attitude, you can bring about the best
  side of this unusually excellent number 
vibration. You are off on a happy
  new adventure in many respects. A trip 
is possible, but if you do not travel
  physically, you are at least on a 
journey toward your innermost dreams.
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: Ace of Wands. 
The hand of God holds forth a
  living wand, a growing thing with green 
leaves. Some leaves fall to earth in
  the form of yods, the sparks of inspiration 
and creation. The wand dispenses
  life to all areas, for all purposes. It 
is pure invention, waiting to be tapped
  by those who would use this spiritual power.
ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE:   The element fire (Aries, Leo,
Sagittarius). The aces of the Tarot   pack preside over the elements fire,
earth, air and water. The fiery element   relating to the Ace of Wands
indicates that you should follow   your own intuition and not deviate from
what you feel is right. You are inventive,   creative and inspired; you bring
originality to everything you touch.   Art and beauty, peace and justice are
very much a part of you.
  28/1 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER 
VIBRATION: If you use care and
  good judgment, there are great possibilities 
for your life. You are ambitious
  and progressive, willing to lead and 
take responsibility. You wish to
  improve existing conditions. Your 
positive, direct approach to life instills
  zest in every new enterprise you initiate. 
You are a person of action with the 
  ability to see things as they really 
are, unclouded by preconceived ideas or
  thoughts. You have good judgment because 
you have a direct link with your
  source of knowledge and a perfect 
balance between your desires and your
  thoughts. You are a visionary with the 
ability to translate your dreams into
  tangible products.
There is a vital, stimulating,   resourceful quality in this number, always
ready for action and pioneering ventures.   With boldness and courage, you
are the master of your fate,   the sovereign of your world.
Your talent for inspiring others,   your balanced mind, kindness and
generosity create a karmic   reaction which brings you success and
satisfaction. You are attractive to the   opposite sex. Money and good fortune
are your payment for giving others   your energy and material assistance. You
may have an interest in scientific procedures.
  Negatively, a 28 or 1 can be reckless and 
daring. You should practice self-control 
  to regain a balance. You can be 
proud, dominating, intolerant and
  full of contradictions. Losses may 
result from poor judgment and misplaced
  trust in others. You probably work 
better if you do not work alone, and at
  this point you may need to begin 
again, profiting by experience.
  Once you have determined your goal 
and learned to trust your intuition,
  you will be well on your way 
to a position of contentment   and worldly
influence.
  28/1 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
Contradictions, competition,
  surprise, unusual events. This period 
offers many opportunities that may
  result in a series of unusual or 
unexpected events. If you proceed with
  caution, your finances could improve 
and prosperity result. There is a
  competitive aspect here which suggests 
opposition. This could result in
  losses through partnerships, the law, 
or placing too much trust in others.
  Herein lies the contradictory 
nature of this number vibration.
  Land and property dealings can 
bring unexpectedly good profits or
  surprising losses, depending on your 
original motives and behavior. If you
  have been honest, ethical and 
aboveboard, you can expect the former.
  Be prepared for events that come up 
suddenly that will test your ability to
  judge fairly without becoming too 
emotional or too stem. Good judgment is
  essential in all transactions and 
agreements. If you obtain the facts and use
  them wisely, you can have very profitable 
relationships with your peers. 
  Some people, believing that they have 
all the answers, resort to sudden
  rash behavior. The promising beginning 
now offered is then lost by this lack
  of judgment.
The outcome of this period   seems to rest solely in your hands. You have
the reins; you can direct your energy down the   primrose path or to the town
dump.
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: Two of Wands. A 
man is holding the world in his
  hand, indicating unlimited opportunity 
for achievement in any line. He is
  dressed in the red robe of activity 
and desire. He is surrounded with live
  power shown by the two firmly planted 
living wands. He looks out over the
  water, signifying the recognition of 
subconscious powers. The garden in the
  background shows work that has been 
done in previous lives. The emblem
  of crossed lilies and roses shows 
that physical desire and spiritual
  unfoldment are blended harmoniously. 
ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE:   First decan Aries. There is a
vitalizing, stimulating and resourceful   quality in this division of the zodiac.
You have courage and passion and are   always ready for action and
pioneering ventures. You are   attractive to the opposite sex. You are
emotional, generous and affectionate;   at the same time, you are proud and
aggressive. You understand there   are many ways to accomplish any goal,
and this can sometimes create difficulty   in decision making. Therefore, you
must learn patience, and profit by   past experiences.
29/11 AS A PERSONAL   NUMBER VIBRATION: 29/11 is a master
number and as such requires more of   you than the other number vibrations.
(Read number 11 and number 2, as you may   fluctuate between these two
basic energies.)
  This is a testing incarnation in which 
the strengths you have established
  in the past must now be put to a 
commercial use. You are a novice in the
  business world that now beckons, yet 
you have all the tools necessary to
  operate a successful enterprise. The 
word wisdom vibrates to 29 or 11 as does
  the word light. The positive side of 
the vibration endows you with the
  vision and foresight necessary to look 
beyond the ordinary world and see
  the uses for your many talents. You 
are then able to achieve wealth and
  success in the business world. Other 
business people are willing to help you
  achieve your goals, and you can enter 
a profitable financial partnership.
  Just as light is physically unstable 
and fluctuating, this number indicates
  uncertainty, indecision and anxiety. 
This energy can draw you to unreliable
  friends and contracts which become 
testing situations. Pride, arrogance and
  stubbornness sometimes prevent you 
from admitting your error. However,
  once fears are overcome and barriers 
lifted, you look back into your pool of
  knowledge and establish again a 
position of strength and stability.
  You are definitely an individualist. 
You have vitality and a generous
  nature. You must learn the fine art of 
cooperation, since you like to have the
  last word.
Learn to make up your   mind and stick to it. When you are able to
persevere in your goals, you will, after some   struggle, attain your hopes and
dreams.
  29/11 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
Learning period, commercial
  opportunities, help offered. This is 
a master number period. It requires
  more effort from you but 
promises greater rewards.
  Be alert. Keep your eyes open and 
watch for opportunities that come
  your way. Use good judgment and insight 
in evaluating the offers that are
  presented to you. Do not overlook or 
ignore any possibilities. Learn to see
  the advantages at hand and grasp them.
Business ventures and commercial   openings offer a new approach to life.
A partnership may be part of an agreement.   Be open to new ideas and
willing to accept the help that   reputable business people extend to you. 
A negative 29 or 11 brings uncertainties   and fears. Friends prove unreliable
and disappointments set in. There is   trouble making decisions. Offers of
help should be looked at carefully.
  You can use this period to tune in to 
your true inner powers, bring them
  out into the light and test them in the 
world of form. See what your talents
  are worth by putting them to practical 
use. If this is done wisely, you stand
  to profit from such endeavors. Your 
peers may recognize your efforts by
  bestowing some honor upon you.
TAROT SYMBOLISM: Three of Wands.   The wands stand for spiritual
power. The figure is facing away   from the power. He should reverse his
thought and make the power available.   The background is barren, showing
that much cultivation is needed.   His attitude is introspective to the extent
that he is unaware of the advantage at hand,   yet he keeps firm hold of one
wand as security. The ships at sea   stand for safe voyage, and water, as
always, means subconscious   reflection and receptivity.
ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE:   Second decan Aries. This is
the ambitious area of the zodiac,   with great drive toward your chosen goal.
There is an eagerness and enthusiasm about   you that affects others. You
emanate a joyous vibration which   spreads over people who come within
your sphere of influence. This ability   assures you a welcome wherever you
go. You can be the life of the party   in your particular circle. Your attitude
could be described as regal. Take care   of this cosmic gift and use it
carefully. If you allow it to turn   to pride and egotism, failure, rather than
success, will cause eventual regret. Hold to   your highest ideals and enjoy
the reward of virtue.
  30/3 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER 
VIBRATION: As in all numbers
  containing the zero, the God power is 
behind the expression of the first digit.
  You seek perfection and strive for 
security. This is an excellent number
  for handling large assignments 
because your mind is orderly and
  systematic. You could be an excellent 
lawyer or judge because you love
  system and respect conventional living. 
You are extremely versatile and
  clever and could easily excel in science. 
You have the skill to be a physician
  or surgeon.
You are skillful in the arts   as well. You love the theater, plays, writing,
music, children and animals. All things that bring   enjoyment and fulfillment
appeal to you.
  The rich rewards, material comforts 
and loving pleasures of a happy
  home are yours. Because you have 
material goods in abundance, you may
  be indifferent to them and turn to 
religious or philosophical interests. You
  are idealistic and have an interest 
in higher consciousness and prophecy.
  Your sex appeal is a great asset as 
well as a subtle danger unless handled
  with a practical mind. You easily occupy 
the center of the stage because you
  are charming and agreeable. You will 
have the abundance that life has to
  offer and thus the freedom to explore 
and express the very best within you.
  You can shine as brilliantly as the 
brightest star in the heavens and sprinkle
  a little sparkle into the lives of many people.
30/3 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION:   Work completed, celebration,
romance, happy home. The projects   that you have been working on reach
their fullest expression in this period.   If the work has been done well, the
rewards will come now in abundance.   It is a time for feasting and 
celebration, a time that has been   long awaited. Your fondest hopes and
dreams can now be fulfilled. 
  These energies are also concerned 
with the home and domestic
  relationships. If a romance is in the 
wind, it will blossom. Marriage will
  bring happiness, fulfillment and fertility.
Your mind is active. You are clever   and capable of wide vision. If you
have an artistic bent, the vibrations   you are now experiencing will enhance
anything you create. An interest   in philosophical or metaphysical
disciplines will also spark the fires   of expression, and if you practice these
mind-stimulating arts,   you will improve your ability to communicate more
effectively. Your mind is in a superior state.
  The negative side of 30 or 3 may 
bring a delay or a diminishing of the
  qualities described above; however, 
even at its worst, this number seems to
  offer only good. Great joy, harmony 
and peace are yours, plus love,
  romance and the rewards of work well done.
TAROT SYMBOLISM: Four of Wands.   The planted living wands show
perfected work. Things have come   to fruition. The red-roofed towers show
desires realized. The two figures denote   the union of two minds, and the
garland of flowers and fruits is   raised high on the wands, meaning prize
work accomplished and hung aloft in triumph.
  ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: 
Third decan Aries. Advantage
  always accrues in the third decan, for 
there is the essence of the combined
  planetary rulers of the fire trinity. 
You desire quality in the things you do,
  buy or collect. Your work or profession 
will be chosen with the best aim
  and desire to succeed. A charming 
personality is one of your cosmic gifts at
  birth, giving you the magnetism which 
attracts the opposite sex. This is an
  asset as well as a danger, according 
to how you handle yourself. Remember
  to follow the law of right and justice 
while creating beauty and harmony in
  your life. Your potential for success 
is best expressed by following a
  conventional course in life. Travel and 
the study of philosophy are possible
  outlets for your energy. 
31/4 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER   VIBRATION: You are a natural
fighter; you fight for what you   want and what you believe in. You are
independent and proud and will work hard   to prove your point. This intense
competitive spirit often results in   strife by arousing competitiveness in
others. A rash scattering of energies   can deplete your impact, so you must
organize and direct your actions efficiently.
  You have determination, energy and 
patience. If you learn to be practical,
  you will be rewarded through business 
and financial success. You have
  potential for achievement, and when 
you learn cooperation and direction,
  you will accomplish a great deal. You 
could establish an industry based on
  knowledge gained through diligent research.
You radiate love freely and powerfully;   your loving nature illuminates
the lives of others. You are generous   and will surmount all difficulties
because you have a positive attitude.   You see each obstacle as an
opportunity to prove your mettle.
  If you are a negative 31 or 4, you 
remain disorganized and live a life of
  struggle, dispute, difficulties and 
material lack. You are nervous and 
  high strung and must learn to 
adjust harmoniously to others. 
  Legal complications can arise through 
your rash behavior and pompous attitude.
  You see the battle of life as a place 
where you can balance and express
  your strength by overcoming all 
obstacles. Your ambition urges you on to
  achievement, and you eventually reach 
the top of the mountain, where the
  exhilarating satisfaction you feel can 
be experienced only by one who has
  made the arduous climb. Success is yours. 
31/4 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION:   Competition, obstacles, legal
dealings, settlements. You must   learn to adjust to others now. Your energy
is at a peak. A great deal can be accomplished   if you direct those energies;
otherwise your vitality may be   misplaced and cause difficulties and
dissension with others. A quarrelsome   nature will cause isolation and
loneliness. Positive action will   open new opportunities and bring about
changes for the better in business and   financial speculation. Favorable
factors combine to bring success,   as long as you don’t allow disorganization
and dissipation of your precious energy.
  Legal matters may need attention, 
and long-pending lawsuits will be
  settled under this vibration. Contracts 
and legal agreements should be
  approached in a calm and orderly 
manner. Cooperation, practicality and
  honesty are essential, so do not allow 
pride and extravagance to spoil the
  favorable outcome of these dealings.
Your finances can improve now if   you join with others in an honest,
mutual effort to bring about tangible results.
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: Five of Wands. 
Five youths are shown wielding
  their wands in a way that expresses 
imbalance. This could be called the
  battle of life in which each one is 
trying to do something in his own way. If
  cooperation were the rule and if they 
joined forces, they could accomplish a
  great deal. This shows mental 
restlessness and lack of serenity. The
  desirability of regaining balance 
is the lesson depicted in this key.
  ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: 
First decan Leo. This area of
  the zodiac indicates a strong will. You 
have determination and the ability to
  exert influence for what you believe is 
right. You are loyal and sincere, and
  while you desire harmony, you want to 
achieve it by bending others to your
  will and ways of action. You are dramatic 
and could follow a career in the
  theater, movies or television. You 
are endowed with a good memory and
  good vitality. You are forceful 
and resolute in all you do. 
  32/5 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER 
VIBRATION: 32 or 5 is the magical
  number ruling people and nations. It 
gives protection, and such words as
  America, Christ, glory, power and circle 
vibrate to it. You who are under the
  influence of this number are called 
the heralds of light; you have the
  knowledge and are commissioned to send 
it forth. You are a warrior for the
  right with a developed sense of duty 
and responsibility. You bring a
  message of good tidings for the future.
This is a number demanding action. You must   be patient, determined and
persistent in getting   ahead. Your goals must be high.
You must be mentally responsible 
  and rely on your intuition. You 
have the ability to master speech
  and foreign languages to aid you in 
communication. You must use your
  good judgment and not allow 
yourself to be swayed by others.
  Many friends will help you, and 
socially and in business you will
  succeed. With persistence you will 
be victorious, and the pleasures you
  have sought will be yours.
If you are a negative 32 or 5 you   allow a haughty, proud nature to turn
would-be friends into enemies who are   eventually victorious over you. Your
sense of superiority irritates others.   This usually happens when you have
attained a position of authority and   feel guilty because you have not lived
up to your potential. The rewards this   number has to offer are delayed until
you have learned the proper use of your energies.
  You have a charming personality, 
which gives you confidence. Your
  dominant qualities make you a leader 
and take you into positions of
  authority. You are attracted to 
government work and could become a leader
  in government policy and law making. 
You have a great sense of personal
  power and desire to see justice done 
in your life work. The laurels of 
  victory are yours if you remain untainted 
by ego. You will gain satisfaction
  only if you know how closely allied 
you are to the Source which sent the
  power through you. Self-confidence is 
an asset in your career, especially if
  this is your Outer Personality 
or Life Lesson Number.
  32/5 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
Good news, humor, rewards,
  victory. You are experiencing a very 
favorable period in which you may
  receive good news. You reach the 
high goals for which you have been
  striving, and the recognition and honor 
that goes with them are now yours.
  You can enjoy the pleasures earned 
from your industrial efforts.
  Difficult situations are overcome and 
disputes are settled, and you come
  out on top. Settlements are made in your favor.
Friends are very helpful during this period,   and you can rely upon them
for whatever you need, socially or   in business. Your persuasive talents are
pronounced, and you can easily sway   others to your way of thinking. The
messages you bring now can be extremely   effective in counseling others or
in just plain good advice.
  Do not allow pride in your 
accomplishments to make you overbearing,
  thus alienating potential and existing 
friends. Your pride can overturn all the
  good; then enemies gain the upper hand. 
This can cause delays in obtaining
  your goals.
Develop a spiritual philosophy   based on the awareness that your present
power has come from the Source and   is only working through you. Enjoy
the satisfaction of knowing you were able   to open yourself as a channel for
that source to work through,   but don’t mistake yourself as the source of
power. This realization brings greater joy   and satisfaction than the mistaken
idea of the self as controller.
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: Six of Wands. 
A horseman crowned with laurel
  and bearing a laurel wreath on his 
wand is riding horseback triumphantly,
  while footmen with wands walk by his 
side. This is a typical picture of
  victory. The inner meaning is 
mastery over the animal nature, and
  controlled spiritual energy. He is a 
warrior for right, duty and responsibility.
  ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: 
Second decan Leo. This is a
  fortunate area of the zodiac, very 
progressive and expansive. It is a sort of
  peak period in the solar year. You have 
a religious or philosophical outlook, 
  and you respect the conventions of the 
culture in which you live. You may
  be tempted to speculate in the stock 
market or gamble in other ways; if
  done without greed, these activities 
could turn out very well. You may
  experience vivid dreams, which you 
should make note of, for they could
  very well become a way to 
receive cosmic guidance. 
  33/6 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER 
VIBRATION: 33 is the third master
  number. It is considered an upper octave 
of Venus, a love vibration raised to
  the highest level—compassion. It is 
called the Christ vibration because the
  title Savior reduces to 33. If lived 
to its ideal, this number will not be
  lowered to its base number 6; but if 
the individual cannot meet the standard
  it may be lived as a 6 vibration. It 
requires self-sacrifice and sometimes
  martyrdom. You are a teacher of teachers. 
You are required to spread your
  light and you must be willing to sacrifice 
for others or for your ideals. You
  are responsible for some special task; 
you have accepted this mission with
  conviction and an unfaltering steadfastness.
With your courage and tireless energy,   you inspire others to follow your
leadership. You show bravery in   difficult situations and maintain your
position regardless of consequences.   You accept the burdens placed upon
you with patience and forbearance,   without expectation of reward or even
appreciation. You may experience   a crucifixion in emotions.
You are honest, self-disciplined,   discriminating and law-abiding. You are
also extremely versatile, creative,   resourceful and imaginative. You
appreciate art and beauty.   Crowds disturb you; therefore, you prefer the
country where you can get away from noise   and turmoil. If you are not 
living up to the high potential   of the 33, you may carry on as a 6, in which
case domestic considerations take precedence.
  If you are a negative 33/6, you are 
emotionally unstable and will sacrifice
  yourself for any cause, even though 
it be unworthy. You become a doormat
  for others. You are anxious, fearful 
and indecisive; your false bravado
  immediately crumbles when you 
are aggressively attacked. Much
  responsibility comes into your life 
for which you get no appreciation. You
  are incarnated for a special purpose 
and may be unhappy or frustrated if
  your particular mission is not found. 
You are a reformer and have a strong
  desire to make the world a 
better place in which to live.
  33/6 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
Responsibility, self-sacrifice,
  courage. You have entered a period in 
which you should maintain faith in
  your inner abilities. You have been 
given the opportunity to use your
  energies to help others alleviate their 
problems. They will seek you out and
  ask for assistance. You must use 
discrimination in selecting those tasks
  which require your energy. Compassion 
for others may be given freely;
  however, sacrifice for its own sake 
is self-defeating and wasteful if not
  applied to the most urgent causes.
  Responsibilities will require your 
attention. Your home or people in the
  family may need your assistance, 
and older people might seek your
  shoulder to cry on. Accept your 
responsibilities with a loving heart and have
  faith and courage in the good service 
you are performing. The energy and
  strength you need will be available. 
Adhere to your principles in the face of
  all opposition, and the law of karma, 
as always, will repay in equal
  measure.
Special situations will   open your eyes and allow you to see into yourself
and perhaps present a purpose for your existence,   a clue as to what direction
your life should take.
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: Seven of Wands. 
Six wands are already planted,
  which means that six senses (the sixth 
being intuition) are developed; and
  the seventh, the ability to leave the 
body at will, is being planted, or
  developed. The figure represents a 
person who is willing to work hard
  without thought of self, for he is 
dressed simply and works on a barren
  hilltop. He cares little for the luxuries 
of the world; he is interested only in 
  higher development. Self-sacrifice 
and determination to give service to
  others are his goals. Sometimes 
this is a martyr’s card.
  ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: 
Third decan Leo. There is the
  power of the world beater in this area 
of the zodiac, but the problem is best
  expressed in the old proverb: “He who 
would conquer the world must first
  conquer himself.” The fiery power of 
this decan (the total power of the fire
  trinity) may have enough impetus to 
propel you to extremes. You need to
  develop steady but progressive attitudes 
in making your way in the world.
  You have a strong pioneer spirit and 
innate leadership qualities. You are
  tireless and can inspire others to 
work with you for worthwhile goals.
  34/7 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER 
VIBRATION: This number rules
  orderly growth and development. It is 
connected with the hidden mysteries
  of life. You can integrate the material, 
mental and spiritual worlds and bring
  about a systematic approach to your evolution.
You are practical and conventional,   seldom overstepping the bounds of
formal behavior. You stick to the facts   as you see them. You are trustworthy,
honest and patient, with a keen   intelligence and discriminating mind.
People can depend on you for straight from   the shoulder answers to their
questions and sound advice   for solving their problems. Your wisdom makes
you a person who is much sought after.
  You are philosophical and introspective, 
with strongly religious leanings.
  These inclinations to the spiritual 
aspects of life, coupled with an open
  mind, make you very intuitive. 
Your mind travels freely without
  obstruction, and you dislike 
any restrictive discipline. 
  Journeys will carry you to many 
places during your lifetime. You will
  experience all modes of travel, 
but flying is probably preferred.
  Since you are articulate, lecturing 
and writing are good outlets. As
  expressive as you are, you have 
learned to be discreet and you can be
  trusted in all things. You have a 
determined approach to life, and seek your
  goals with a hopeful, expectant attitude.
You embrace patience because you   understand that progress takes time.
If you are a negative 34 or 7, you are   impatient, impulsive and reckless. You
are selfish and not above using your keen   mind to outwit an opponent. At
times you may resort to violence   to attain your goals. 
34/7 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION:   Haste, messages, settlements.
Pursuits are approaching completion,   and your rewards are in direct ratio to
the efforts expended. Stagnant conditions   are stirred up, and final
settlements are made.
  This is an active, hopeful period 
in which you rapidly advance toward
  your goals. You may receive 
communications of all kinds, and these
  messages propel you onward. Your 
messages are dashed off in return.
  Romance is emphasized now, and 
messages of love fill the air.
  A negative reaction brings about 
disputes, legal difficulties and delays.
  Business and love relationships can 
stagnate. Quarrels and domestic
  problems arise, sometimes because of 
jealousy or rash behavior. It requires
  extra effort on your part to 
bring about a settlement.
  Travel, perhaps by air, is very 
likely in order to bring affairs to a
  successful conclusion. This period sets 
the wheels in motion. Your affairs
  are obviously progressing, and you can 
see that time brings all things to
  their designated completion.
TAROT SYMBOLISM: Eight of Wands.   Eight live forces move swiftly
through the air, unobstructed   over open country. All follow the same
direction, pointing east toward the light,   and aim toward the earth and
water. The lower wand is actually   touching earth and water to show the
blending of the three parts of mind and   the four elements. It depicts the
integration of the above with the   below. The significance of this key is
orderly growth, with much cosmic help. 
  ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: 
First decan Sagittarius. You
  love outdoor exercise, walking, 
swimming, horseback riding and most
  games and sports. You also have a high 
regard for the spiritual side of life
  and believe that nature has a lot 
to offer. You have a hopeful and
  enthusiastic outlook on life, and you 
believe in right and justice. You are
  clever, quick-witted and humorous, 
while possessing a level-headed
  practicality that keeps you in balance 
with the times. Wisdom is one of your
  virtues. You are frank in speech, 
often blunt, but people know where you
  stand, which is admirable. You like to 
aim your arrow toward the stars and
  gain results quickly.
35/8 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER   VIBRATION: This is called the
inheritance 8 because its bearer   usually inherits money, power or position,
and sometimes all three. You have an   individualistic, forceful mind, a
tremendous vitality and a sense of   what the public needs and how to supply
it; therefore, you make a good executive,   business person, teacher or
researcher.
  You work and play hard because you 
enjoy strenuous activity. You have a
  great deal of personal charm and are 
attractive to both sexes. You have
  many interests and could succeed in 
any number of professions. You are
  friendly, helpful and considerate. 
Emotional balance is important for you.
  You need stability to control your 
dynamic energy and achieve success.
  Travel is one outlet for your tremendous 
vitality because it satisfies your
  need for freedom and action.
You may meet opposition during   your lifetime; however, you are
prepared. Inner strength and power   and a healthy body give you the tools to 
defend your position. Through dedication and   consistent force, you are
eventually victorious.
  The negative 35 or 8 produces doubt, 
unreasonableness and unbending
  judgments. You become self-indulgent 
and undisciplined, which brings on
  weakness, ill-health and many 
bitter emotional experiences.
  However, with your vision and foresight, 
you have the opportunity to be
  a leader, who is able to 
supply both mind and body.
  35/8 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
Preparedness, strength,
  inheritance, recognition, business. 
This is a period when almost anything
  can happen; you should be prepared 
for whatever comes. The demand is
  toward more responsibility and discipline; 
you will need to use your stored
  energy source. You may be promoted 
and therefore have to withstand more
  pressure and more work. The honors 
bestowed now reflect past efforts.
  This is a money vibration, and 
job advancement usually means an
  increase in salary. However, inheritances 
also come under a 35/8, so this is
  another source of money.
The pressures of this period   will affect your health only if you work and
worry too much. Allow sufficient time for rest,   follow careful eating habits
and relegate the demands of the   material world to their proper place. Your
health can improve through the exciting   demands placed upon you; you will
never feel more alive. So use the tremendous   vitality this period has to
offer. Get the job done,   whatever the job happens to be.
TAROT SYMBOLISM: Nine of Wands.   Eight firmly planted wands make
a fence between the figure and the   outer world. The ninth wand is held in
readiness for use if necessary. This   is a picture of strength and latent power,
both physical and spiritual. It implies inherited   strength for work well done
in the past.
  ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: 
Second decan Sagittarius. A
  strong independence is inherent in your 
nature. You are a bit impulsive and
  forceful. You like to be at the head 
of things, and you have the executive
  ability to back up that desire. You 
must not let overconfidence lead you to
  take on more responsibility than is 
comfortable. Keep your nervous energy
  in check and control your desire for 
too much expansion. You can usually 
  find your way out of a jam, but it 
would be better to take the middle road
  and accept the simple laws 
of personal discipline.
  36/9 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER 
VIBRATION: You are a determined
  person who perseveres until all obstacles 
are overcome. You may be called
  upon to carry a heavy burden of some 
kind during your life, but you have
  the ability to face this sort of circumstance,   while proceeding ever onward
toward your goal.
  Energy and common sense are part 
of your makeup; therefore, you
  preserve what resources you have. 
Your dependability, persistence and
  intensity lead you to a position of 
power and authority. You have a natural
  executive ability. You are trustworthy 
and can inspire and direct others. You
  see things from a broad viewpoint. 
Large and important enterprises are
  exciting, and you are not afraid to 
tackle them, for you do not fear
  responsibility.
Your strength is expressed in   kindness. You are a believer in justice
tempered by mercy. Sympathy for others   increases your loving nature and
blankets your life with good influences   which lighten any loads you must
carry.
  Your quick intuition and inspired nature 
allow you to see into the future.
  This, combined with your inventive 
mind, creates the ability to discover.
  Your discoveries should be directed 
toward the uplifting of others. By
  performing service you find the Holy 
Grail or the Christ within your
  innermost being where all 
ideals await manifestation.
  You are sometimes described as the 
salt of the earth, and you must be
  careful that your earthiness does not 
bring on waste and selfishness and 
  impose additional burdens on you.
A negative 36 or 9 is easily upset   and has continual ups and downs.
36/9 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION:   Obstacles, intuition, invention,
leadership. This vibration may   temporarily place some burden on you;
however, persevere with relentless   determination. Remain intent upon your
goal and have confidence that it will soon   be reached; all problems will then
be solved. Have joy in the   prospect of this completion.
You are now endowed with great   strength, intuition, vision and optimism.
This can aid you in working creatively,   finding solutions in research and
completing projects in progress. If   you wisely use these energies, you need
not suffer any emotional difficulties.
  The separations, endings and apparent 
losses in this vibration are
  necessary to free you for the new 
cycle you are about to enter. Problems
  may have to be settled legally during 
this time; by projecting optimism and
  honesty, a favorable outcome is assured. 
Any losses occurring now involve
  only those things that you do not need. 
Upon closer scrutiny, you will find
  that this is true.
TAROT SYMBOLISM: Ten of   Wands. This key represents the binding of
one’s forces to preserve and protect   them. Spiritual forces, if used as a
spiritual fence between the individual   and the affairs of earth, serve to blind
one and lead to an attempt to escape from   the discipline of matter before its
lessons are learned. Thus it is not   advancement but rather represents
arrested development. The lesson   of this key is to guard against the
repression of energy and force and use   it instead for invention and
upliftment.
  ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: 
Third decan Sagittarius. The
  ultimate decan of the fire signs sometimes 
brings emotions to extremes. You
  are impetuous and need to control your 
feelings when dealing with others,
  as they may not understand your 
personality. You must be careful not to be
  a plunger, dipping quickly into things 
without careful thought. You could,
  however, develop the ability to preserve 
your assets and become fortunate
  in speculative ventures. Your compassionate 
nature can be awakened so that
  a philosophic and prophetic nature 
comes to the surface, which could prove
  to be very beneficial for yourself and others. 
THREE: THE CUPS.
  37/1 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER 
VIBRATION: You are a mature,
  reserved individual whose calm exterior 
belies your desire to rule. You
  aspire to prominence, to be in a 
leadership position in which your inherent
  expansive and emotional nature can be 
expressed. Your friendly, kind and
  generous qualities promote 
goodwill among your followers.
  A slight militancy emerges into a 
dedicated defense when you feel the
  institution of the home and family 
is under attack either physically or
  intellectually. Although some 37's or 
1’s remain unmarried, they nevertheless
  value a home as a secure base for 
future happiness. The life partner you
  choose will be a great help toward 
your success, and together you will
  create peace and pleasant fellowship.
Business and religion are equally attractive   to you. You are just as able to
apply your nurturing and expansive   philosophy to investments and
international banking affairs as   you are to the spiritual problems of others.
Travel and overseas projects intrigue you,   and you could be attracted to
some sort of foreign service as an   ambassador or agent. Your talents and
devotion bring you the position and   emotional security you need. You then
share your blessings with others.
  If you are a negative 37 or 1 you 
have a calm exterior which conceals a
  dishonest, perhaps violent nature. You 
use all forms of trickery to gain your
  ends. 
37/1 AS A TEMPORARY   VIBRATION: Friendships, partnerships, love,
family. During this calm, happy period,   a friendship with an influential
person can help you to achieve the   results you desire. This help may come
through your mate or through   an existing relationship.
You will feel drawn to your family,   ready to protect and defend them
against any adversity. A slightly   militant attitude arises when you feel they
are threatened. The love vibration is strong,   and if you are looking for a
mate, you could very possibly   find a suitable candidate. This is a fortunate
vibration for making plans with the opposite sex.
  You may be attracted to philosophy, 
science and the arts. Religious and
  spiritual subjects also interest you, and 
your creative talents find expression
  in these fields.
Business prospers and you   benefit financially. Pursuits during this time
may require travel, possibly over long distances.
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: King of Cups. The 
King carries both the scepter of
  power and the upright cup of controlled 
emotion. His throne, floating on
  water, represents the idea that his 
subconscious sustains him. The leaping
  fish on one side and the fish on 
the chain around his neck show his
  involvement in spiritual matters. The 
ship depicts his involvement in the
  world of commerce. He is the lord of 
wisdom and commerce because of his
  wise use of emotions.
ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE:   First decan Cancer. This
decan is ruled by the Moon. You   are mild, reserved and home-loving. The
life partner you choose will be a great   help toward your success. You aspire
to prominence and could be attracted   to some position in foreign service,
such as ambassador or agent. Travel   interests you. Friendships, love and
partnerships are part of your lifestyle.
  38/11 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER 
VIBRATION: This is a powerful
  master number both spiritually and 
materially, as this vibration carries the
  gift of vision. You have achieved a 
perfect blend of the conscious and
  subconscious, which grants you a 
rapport with spiritual things. You are
  poetic and imaginative and can see 
things that are hidden from most other
  people. Through dreams and visions, 
you see the goals you desire. You can
  act upon them and bring them into 
reality. You have an intense, powerful
  spirituality, with the visionary 
qualities of an avatar.
  The security and material advantages 
of the world are yours. Love,
  success and a happy marriage blend 
to create the harmony you so desire,
  thus allotting you the leisure time in 
which to further pursue and develop
  your dreams and psychic faculties.
You are a good parent dedicated to   your home and family. You receive
much joy from them, and you take   pride in their accomplishments and
energetically back them in all their   endeavors. Through your thoughtful
interest, you become an influence in   the lives of others. People are affected
not so much by what you say as by the   example you set. Your life is a
pattern they wish to emulate.
  Abuse of these beautiful energies 
through the extravagant use of your
  material wealth causes problems. 
Deception can degenerate into immorality,
  at which point discord disrupts the 
harmony of the home and business
  world.
You know that true   happiness comes from service to others. Material
donations are not enough; you have to develop   the gifts of the spirit as well.
You should engage in charity work or   contribute to and participate in
educational programs. 
  38/11 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
Love, marriage, dreams,
  visions, rewards. This is a master 
number period which demands a great
  deal from you but promises even 
greater rewards. Your cup runs over.
  Many advantages come your way, and 
your fondest desires can now be
  fulfilled. People in high positions 
not only offer you assistance but may
  bestow some sort of recognition upon you.
If romance has been lacking, this vibration   should very nicely fill that
void. The love you encounter   now is deep and abiding and can develop into
marriage. Existing relationships are enhanced   and family members are
drawn closer.
  Your dreams bring messages from your 
subconscious. You are tuned in to
  secret areas of your being that are 
usually closed off. A powerful spiritual
  force is present, moving in your life 
to awaken a deeper part of you. This is
  a time to give not only of your 
material wealth, but also of your time,
  talents and compassion, the gifts that 
have the only true lasting value.
  Metaphysical disciplines should be 
learned and practiced now, so that
  you can adequately contact your higher 
sources. So much of value will be
  found that the material benefits of this 
lucrative period will wane beside the
  glitter of the gifts of the soul.
TAROT SYMBOLISM: Queen of Cups.   The Queen holds the ornate cup
of vision and sees in it the events   in the sphere of the zodiac; therefore, the
cup portrays the divine gift of reflective   clairvoyance. She wears a red and
blue robe that blends the conscious   and subconscious minds. The cherubs
on the throne represent the guardianship   of the divine beings who protect
and guide her.
  ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: 
Second decan Cancer. Scorpio
  and Pluto are underlying influences in 
the second decan of Cancer. You are
  proud, reserved and introspective. 
Your perception makes you a visionary,
  and you tend toward spirituality. The 3, 
the number of Jupiter, and the 8, the
  number of Saturn, act in combination 
as if the planets were conjunct; this
  aspect is found in the charts 
of holy leaders and sages. 
  39/3 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER 
VIBRATION: You have selected a
  life of service to others. You offer 
affection, love and sympathy in order to
  help make the world a better place in 
which to live. You are a crusader who
  wants to feel that the world has benefited 
because of your sojourn in it. You
  are idealistic and philosophical. You 
desire justice and you will make a
  vigorous stand for your beliefs. No 
obstacle can deter you from finishing a
  project once you have begun.
A gentle poetic nature makes you   a romantic. You dream beautiful
unhurried dreams that inspire you   to enlarge the scope of your life. Your
imagination dovetails nicely with a keen   intellect; together they achieve an
expansiveness that inspires others.
  You will live a long and healthy 
life, in peace and contentment,
  surrounded by friends and loved 
ones. The love you give is returned
  abundantly, which fills your cup even 
fuller, until the love must spill over
  into the lives of those who are in 
need. You exemplify the saying: “Love
  wasn’t put in your heart to stay, Love 
isn’t love until you give it away.” Each
  time you give you are rewarded ten-fold; 
thus your life is ever enriched.
  You will communicate this 
love to all you contact.
  If you are a negative 39 or 3, you live 
a sensual life, indulging your every
  need. You are lazy and sometimes 
insensitive to the suffering of others.
  39/3 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
Love, propositions, vacations.
  Thoughts of love dominate this period. 
You feel warm and friendly, and you
  desire to share these feelings with 
others; therefore you draw people to you.
  Friendships develop, one of which 
may deepen into a bond of love. 
  Messages and invitations of various 
kinds are possible. People seek you
  out, wishing to join you in a goodwill   project. You may be offered a
partnership or proposition.
  This is a leisure time. Your unhurried 
attitude and general good feeling
  may prompt you to take a vacation or 
get away to a quiet spot that matches
  your contemplative mood. Faraway 
places lure you, and you should heed
  the call. Relaxation, love and affection 
are the goals of this romantic period.
  A negative reaction brings contracts 
and propositions that should be
  looked into. There can be fraud and 
deceit. Any delays here are for the best.
  Do something good for someone else 
now. Every effort on your part will
  be fully rewarded under 
this delightful vibration.
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: Knight of Cups. 
Both Knight and horse are gentle
  and unhurried. The Knight approaches 
calmly with a cup of affection held
  out as an offering to humanity. His 
robe is decorated with the divine fish
  symbol. The stream, running serenely 
through the valley, depicts the
  Knight’s calm emotional attitude. The 
entire picture is one of peace and
  contentment.
ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE:   Summer (Cancer, Leo, Virgo).
Love dominates this period. Summer   is a warm time of year when leisure or
vacations promote affection and love.
  Cancer imbues you with a
sympathetic and loving nature;   Leo bestows powers of leadership and high
goals; and Virgo demands service to the   world. All these qualities combine
to create an idealistic crusader.
  40/4 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER 
VIBRATION: You are an honorable
  and confident individual. You have 
developed an orderly lifestyle. You are
  methodical and careful with money 
and know how to invest wisely. You
  believe in a square deal, and you want 
the same in return. These talents
  have ensured your material well-being. 
Through research and study you
  build firm foundations for your 
projects. As a result you are usually
  successful in business. Mathematical 
talents lead to a gift for statistical
  analysis.
You have learned to deal wisely   with people and are considerate of their
needs. Your quiet, receptive nature   is influenced by the feelings of those
around you. Your studiousness and meditative   nature find a natural channel
in the study of literature.
  You are a peacemaker and you handle 
emotions well. Love and passion
  have evolved into love and compassion 
for others. You are sure of the
  eternal life. Since you have the 
God symbol, 0, backing the 4 in 40,
  protection is assured. Inner 
guidance is always available.
  If you are a negative 40 or 4, you see 
only difficulties and obstacles in your
  life. This creates confusion and 
disorder. You squander your money chasing
  illusive goals and build your castle upon sand.
If you maintain an orderly and secure existence,   you will create a sound
base from which to draw   the strength to pursue realistic goals. Then you
leave lasting values and substance in this world.
  40/4 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
Finances, building, birth. This is
  a good planning period. New techniques 
can be implemented now. Building
  a business, a house, or both, are 
possible ventures. You are advised to use
  caution in all financial dealings; 
handle your money wisely. Whatever you
  plan can be successful if you invest 
wisely. Set up a budget and put your
  affairs in order. This period will 
require a systematic existence; only then
  will your subconscious carry 
out the plans you have devised.
  Messages of all kinds are forthcoming. 
The birth of a child, the beginning
  of a business enterprise or a new 
lifestyle may be announced. These affairs
  all require that old habits be left 
behind; therefore, breaks and separations
  are a necessary part of this cycle.
Be discriminating about those in   whom you place your confidence.
Obstacles may present themselves;   however, the solution to these problems 
will uncover past procedures that impeded   your progress. With this
knowledge, you realize that the   obstacles are in reality a blessing.
TAROT SYMBOLISM: Page of Cups.   This quiet figure is beautifully
dressed in the lotus-decorated costume   of red and blue which indicates that
the conscious and subconscious mind   have made the wearer sure of eternal
life. The lotus is a self-renewing plant,   which contains both male and
female elements. The Page’s cup   contains the fish, symbol of the divine;
therefore, love and passion have turned to   love and compassion for
humanity.
  ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: 
Third decan Cancer. The
  Piscean influence which underlies this 
decan of Cancer gives you literary
  ability. You are usually successful in 
business because your intuition and
  practical good sense make you a keen 
investor. You are gifted in making
  statistical judgments, careful in matters 
of finance and honest in business
  dealings. You are influenced by the 
feelings around you and prefer a
  peaceful, orderly environment in which to live.
41/5 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION:   You are offered all
the pleasures of the world in   abundance. This number carries divine help
and protection. You are extremely versatile   because you are able to reflect
upon the inspirations you receive.   Through spiritual nourishment you
translate concepts into reality;   you create form where only ideas existed.
You are thus able to enjoy all the material   benefits the world has to offer
because truly your cup runneth over. 
  You radiate love, faith and enthusiasm. 
You show courage when things
  go wrong. You can tackle anything, 
and usually do, with considerable
  success. Inspiration and energy combine 
for speedy and satisfactory results.
  You are a pioneer, you enjoy change, but 
desire practical and useful results.
  Love, happiness and productivity 
follow you. Since you enjoy many of
  the pleasures of material living, you 
must control a tendency to indulge
  your senses. A pleasure-seeking 
personality can result and your abundant
  creative faculties are 
diffused in sensual pursuits.
  Your creativity extends to the 
family, and you can produce many
  children. You will provide them 
with a loving, comfortable home. By
  applying your talents toward useful 
goals, you can achieve all the material
  wealth and comforts anyone could 
possibly desire. You can also create a
  loving atmosphere from which 
others can draw inspiration and
  nourishment.
41/5 AS A TEMPORARY   VIBRATION: Love, abundance, fertility,
change. Joy and contentment fill your life   now. The abundant rewards of
past efforts are available,   and you radiate happiness and confidence. You
enjoy the beauty and pleasure surrounding you   and feel good about yourself
as a person.
  Creative forces are at work here, 
producing not only material goods but
  relationships as well. The love of your 
life may appear, or existing ties may
  be deepened. The birth of children 
brings happiness and reinforces your
  belief in the goodness of life.
Conditions are changing;   new opportunities will alter many habits and
situations. Take your time making decisions   because impulsiveness can
overturn all the good effects   of this period. Hasty moves in business can
bring losses. Love relationships may falter   if the selfish appetites of one
party are indulged at the expense   of the other. Use the creative and
potentially fulfilling vibrations of   this cycle wisely, and you can expect
your wildest dreams to come true.
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: Ace of Cups. A 
white dove, symbolic of peace,
  truth and the Holy Spirit, drops the 
seal of Jehovah into the cup. The five
  streams of water emanating from 
the cup represent the five senses
  overflowing into a lotus-filled pool. 
When we give our sensitivities and
  emotions, we create an unending supply 
of love. The cup is held by the 
  guardian angel or the Hand of God, 
from which cosmic inspiration flows.
  Falling drops of water take on the 
form of yods, the divine power.
  ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: 
The element water (Cancer,
  Scorpio, Pisces). All the qualities of 
the water signs are built into this
  vibration. You have the loving, 
protective nature of Cancer, the deep
  creative understanding of Scorpio and 
the sensitive, reflective qualities of
  Pisces. You have courage when things 
go wrong. Your inspiration comes
  through receptivity and reflection.
  42/6 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER 
VIBRATION: You have a friendly,
  cooperative nature. Your desire to help 
others and your complete dedication
  to peace and understanding equip 
you well for the ministry.
  Professional work along artistic lines 
is your forte as well. You would be
  a fine singer. You have a creative 
imagination and a strong leaning toward
  the mystical. You should make an 
effort to train your intuition along
  practical lines. You need an outlet 
for your inner urges and a means to
  exercise your imagination. You could 
find it through writing stories.
  Children’s stories might appeal to 
your sensitive nature. You see beauty
  everywhere and should express it in 
a tangible way for others to enjoy.
  Your personal charm and your 
pleasure-loving, generous nature draw
  others to you. You intuitively realize 
their needs and work to create a happy
  atmosphere wherever you are. You need 
the sociability of friends and would
  not be happy living alone. Since you 
are hospitable and repay kindness with
  kindness, there is little danger that 
you will have a solitary life. However, 
  those who try to fulfill their own 
selfish needs will, under this vibration,
  feel lonely and misunderstood.
Home and personal relationships   are important to you; you need to be
discriminating to control the emotion   involved here. You believe in doing
the right thing and sharing equally   in all relationships and binding contracts.
When you make commitments, others are assured   of an honest and abiding
bargain. 
  42/6 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
Contracts, marriage,
  meditation. There is a blending of 
minds now, a harmony on the mental
  plane that seeks to bring ideas to a 
common meeting ground. Contracts and
  agreements that have been pending can 
be settled amicably and fairly with
  both sides gaining equally.
Your cooperative attitude creates   an atmosphere of happiness and
harmony. Worthwhile friendships   will form and bring personal fulfillment.
This is a vibration of love. For some it   brings love affairs, for others,
engagement and marriage.
  This is also a meditative period in 
which you will be urged to give form
  to your inner feelings. Beauty appeals 
to the sense of harmony that you are
  experiencing. Time spent alone should 
be used to get in touch with those
  inner feelings and to bring them out 
where others can appreciate them.
  Begin to develop any creative talent you possess.
Since the keywords now are love and cooperation,   you will encounter
situations in which these   qualities must be exercised. Do not allow
misunderstandings to lead to separations;   then the meditative aspects of this
cycle will degenerate into loneliness.   Seek peace through understanding and
you will benefit from any contacts you now make.
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: Two of 
Cups. The man and woman are
  exchanging cups to demonstrate the law 
of give and take. This is also the
  symbol of the duality of creation. The 
winged lion above the caduceus is a
  composite symbol meaning: “The 
adept who has power to interpret to
  others knowledge of the higher worlds.” 
The woman is dressed in white
  with a blue outer robe to show 
the purity underlying the soul or
  subconscious. The man’s costume has 
a yellow background which stands
  for consciousness and is decorated with 
trefoils symbolizing the trinity. The 
  house in the background represents the 
creativity of humanity or the united
  effort of male and female.
ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE:   First decan Cancer. You are
receptive, sensitive, affectionate   and usually psychic. You meet people with
graciousness and charm. You need to guard   against being too sentimental or
effusive, as others may misinterpret   your motives. You are very creative and
need interesting activity to provide balance   in your life. Home decorating or
other types of art appeal to you.   You would be most content not being
famous but rather living a happy,   peaceful life, surrounded by a loving
family. If there is a keyword   in this decan, it is love. 
43/7 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION:   You are a true friend,
affectionate and tolerant of   others’ whims and foibles. Your pledge of
friendship endures many tests. Your   sympathetic nature and sense of justice
reach out to the young and the underprivileged;   you are always willing to
help someone in need.
  Your gentle nature may hide a strong 
determination to reach your goals.
  You know when to be silent. Clear 
thinking is one of your best attributes,
  and it is most effectively developed in 
constructive activity. Your positive
  approach to life, temperate habits 
and ability to make logical decisions
  create an atmosphere for success. 
Fulfillment and abundance are the fruits
  you pick as the result of your clever 
productive actions. Your achievement
  of power and financial security 
allows you the freedom to enjoy the
  comforts you have earned. You enjoy 
being in a position of power. Your 
  power extends to healing, in situations 
where the energy you possess can be
  transferred to the energy fields of 
others, thus creating a new life for them.
  You are a dependable person with 
poise and a sense of balance. Your
  strong intuitive powers and discernment 
are based on your ability to
  accumulate facts. These talents will 
contribute to your success as a teacher,
  writer or speaker, if you choose 
any of these professions.
  Whatever profession you choose, you 
will bring to it your constructive
  and creative ideas, positive attitude 
and fine mind. The rewards will be
  plentiful. However, you must control 
any desires to overindulge in food,
  drink and unhealthy relationships. 
Excesses will lead to physical and
  emotional pain. Rather, share the 
abundance of your life with those who are
  less fortunate. Such an effort 
increases your own store.
  43/7 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
Abundance, rejoicing, healing.
  Congratulations are in order. This is a 
period of rejoicing because the results
  of your past endeavors are now 
evident. You have concluded matters
  successfully and realized your 
goals. The rewards are yours.
  If your pursuits have been 
professional, you now realize financial
  increases, promotion and business 
expansion. If health has been an issue,
  healing takes place. Family 
difficulties smooth out, and you are
  overwhelmed by success, peace and 
extra benefits that you are now
  enjoying.
This is a restful vibration,   so loosen up and enjoy it. Follow your routine
or take a vacation, but maintain the status   quo. Pushing new ventures and
pursuing new avenues is not part   of this cycle. Sit back and relax.
Be careful that your celebration does   not degenerate into overindulgence.
Too much of the good life can bring on   physical discomforts. If you select
your partners indiscriminately,   relationships can suffer. So eat, drink and be
merry in moderation. You have earned it.
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: Three of Cups. 
This key depicts the celebration of
  bounty and good fortune. Three maidens 
jubilantly toast the happy outcome
  of their work—the abundant 
harvest pictured around them.
  ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: 
Second decan Cancer. The
  sensitivity in this area of the zodiac is 
subtle and inclined toward the occult.
  You are progressive, deeply emotional 
and sentimental. Your experiences 
  become more definite; your goals, more 
clearly defined. You are somewhat
  secretive about your personal life and 
often silent and introspective. You
  know instinctively when to talk and 
when to listen. You may be surprised at
  your strength in an emergency. You prefer 
to lead an even-tempered life, but
  you can really spring into action if the 
occasion demands it. You fully enjoy
  the good things in life. You have the 
capacity to accomplish skilled work in
  valuable enterprises.
44/8 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER   VIBRATION: This is a master
number and, as such, demands   more from you. You are a steady worker.
You will persevere in your chosen goal   because you exercise discipline. You
conform to the demands of a situation,   and make the best of it. You prefer to
be in an environment where steady   progress brings concrete results. Your
success comes from useful enterprises.
  You are extremely resourceful and 
cautious. You plan your actions well
  in advance. You could achieve distinction 
in political or military affairs,
  where self-discipline and expediency 
are the keys to success. You are brave
  in battle. You possess the will to face 
adversity and the energy to overcome
  obstacles through sustained effort.
Common sense and logic back up your   judgments. You enjoy order and
stability. Yours is a conventional   approach to life. There is a great deal of
the materialist in you. Guard against   too deep a desire for fame and
possessions. This can lead to overwork,   poor health and material losses.
You then close yourself into an   ignorant, do-nothing world and become
discontented and frustrated. Therefore,   you should investigate new 
opportunities to broaden   your horizons. Make room in your orderly
existence for things you did not plan on.
  You are well developed physically, 
mentally and emotionally, but you
  may be missing the intuitive link. The 
opportunity to develop this side of
  your character is present. Work on 
becoming aware of what you cannot see;
  tune in to your inner self. When you 
have achieved this awareness, you can
  express the master number vibration. 
Serve the material needs of the world
  through productive actions, actions 
first inspired on the inner plane. You
  can supply the comfort and common 
sense advice that help keep this world
  together.
44/8 AS A   TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Karma, re-evaluation,
opportunity. In this master number period,   you are being offered an
opportunity to reevaluate your   present circumstances. You have the time to
contemplate the value of the rewards you are   now receiving. If past efforts
have been productive, you will   see an increase in status and finances.
Others will bestow kindnesses upon you;   friends and family gather and
increase. However, past efforts may   only bring unwanted and restricting
burdens. You may want to give up,   sit back and do nothing. If you feel
discontented and closed in, you need to   establish new priorities and set
worthwhile goals.
  The experiences of this period may 
graphically depict the missing link in
  your makeup. Chances are the material 
world is well represented. Things
  are happening physically, and you are 
reacting emotionally, which sets you
  to work mentally. Your mind contemplates 
and wonders if this is all there is.
  At this moment you are reaching out 
for the Hand of God or the intuitive
  side of your nature. You are looking for 
the answer that puts your world into
  perspective. That answer can be found 
only within yourself. You can find
  that answer now and give it form by 
sharing with others the rewards or
  experiences this cycle has given 
you. Your advice and wisdom will set
  others upon their path of liberation. 
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: Four of Cups. 
The figure is seated in quiet
  contemplation and concentration. He 
sees three full cups in front of him,
  and he seems unaware of a fourth cup 
being offered by the Hand of God
  coming from the cosmic cloud (hidden 
wisdom). If he seeks divine aid with
  patience, meditation, self-control and 
persistence, it is available to him. His 
  calm physical appearance shows that 
mental activity is what brings results.
  He must choose a worthwhile goal or 
the proffered cup could be lost.
  ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: 
Third decan Cancer. This
  decan will be felt more on the 
mystical or inner plane than on the
  extroverted personality plane. Thus 
you are more sensitive to vibrations
  around you or those coming into your 
aura from outside contacts. You are
  kind, hospitable and sympathetic. 
You may be attracted to a career in
  nursing, dietetics or some phase 
of social work dealing with the
  handicapped. A life of service to others 
befits this vibration. Your ideals are
  high, but you need to keep your dreams practical.
45/9 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION:   This is a highly
sensitive, mystical vibration.   You will not be satisfied with worldly success
alone. The positive energies of this vibration   can lead to high psychic
development.
  You sympathize with the unfortunate 
and take on their heartaches. You
  love to teach and serve; you have the 
fortitude to face emergencies with
  courage seldom found in other number 
vibrations. Working with groups and
  organizations can be satisfying; you 
can effectively teach them through
  your own experiences.
You are secretive, reserved and   proud. You are determined to successfully
carry out your ambitions, as you are   also receptive to new ideas, willing to
work, and feel no limitations in doing so.   This drive can be detrimental if it
causes you to overwork. 
  There is conflict between your 
emotions and your common sense. You
  need to practice control and conserve 
your energy. Do not go to extremes in
  pursuit of your ideals. Emotional 
dissatisfaction arises only when you dwell
  on the past. Disappointments, sorrow 
and loss ensue when you stubbornly
  cling to old ways that have outlived 
their usefulness. Use the experiences of
  the past as stepping-stones 
to higher elevations. 
  Then through your words
and example you can teach others to renew   their lives and build a brighter
future.
  You are affectionate and generous. 
If things go wrong, you are eager to
  set them right. Look at what you have 
as resources, rather than at what you
  do not have or have lost. Then you 
will achieve the delicate balance
  necessary for your happiness. With 
patience and hope, stressful situations
  can be transformed into lessons 
which you can teach to others.
  This vibration often produces an 
early marriage and many children.
  45/9 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
Old friends, partial gains,
  learning experiences. There can be 
gains and inheritances during this
  cycle, though perhaps they are not up 
to your expectations. You should not
  brood over any partial losses that occur 
now. Use what you gain to initiate
  something new. Do not spend your 
energy regretting past mistakes. Learn
  from them and proceed onward. There 
will be sufficient gains here for you
  to realize that a better use of your 
personal energy will bring even more
  reward the next time around.
An old friend may return for a   visit and remind you of your past. Use
discrimination in dealing with those   you encounter; don’t expect too much
from them. When you have successfully   learned from the past and let go of
it, you will form new alliances that   will open doors to the future. You will
become aware of some of your own resources   which you have overlooked
until now.
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: Five of Cups. A 
cloaked figure looks sorrowfully
  at three spilled cups, not realizing that 
there are two cups left filled. This
  indicates that losses should not be 
brooded over. By turning around to face
  a new start, other resources are always 
found with which to carry on. In
  other words, do not waste 
energy regretting past mistakes;   learn from them,
and go ahead. 
  ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: 
First decan Scorpio. You have
  definite goals and a fixed determination 
to carry them out. You feel a sense
  of inner power, which may be expressed 
as pride or self will. You are
  strongly attracted to the occult. You 
seem to have boundless energy; you
  quickly bounce back from any defeat 
with renewed vigor and quietly go
  about your business. You know the 
power of silence. Many strongly
  motivated reformers or missionaries 
are born in this decan of Scorpio; the
  desire to change things for the better 
seems inherent. You are a tireless
  worker when motivated by your ideal. 
46/1 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You have a
  dominating personality. You work and 
play with equal passion. You win
  others through your charm and wit, 
cloaking your strong will under a gentle
  manner. You are a natural leader. You 
like to be the center of your world and
  must guard against taking advantage 
of those who admire your popularity,
  or those who could be misguided 
by your fine showmanship.
  You have high ideals and could 
choose a profession in science or
  philosophy. With your highly developed 
psychic sense and strong intuition,
  you could also be an inventor. Any of 
these pursuits enable you to express
  your humanitarian ideals. If you choose 
an idealistic profession, keep your
  goals practical. This number often 
acquires money, but loses it if ideals are
  impractical. But this number is also 
willing to start again, and you can attain
  another fortune.
Positions of power and   authority are natural for you. You are strong
willed and intense. You set your goal and go   after it in a steady and 
methodical manner. You are,   however, willing to share your good fortune
because you are generous, warm and tender.
  Your ability, imagination and enthusiasm 
bring you success in work and
  play. A happy childhood and comforting 
memories give you the stability to
  venture forth in the world expecting, 
and therefore receiving, the best life
  has to offer.
If you are negative 46/1 you live   in the past, surrounded by memories,
refusing to accept the present. You   can be childish and irresponsible,
thereby attracting, as a natural reaction to   your output, a worthless circle of
acquaintances. 
  46/1 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
Good karma, new opportunities,
  success. You are now the center of 
attention. You may receive gifts or
  inheritances of some kind from 
situations that existed in the past. A
  childhood acquaintance may appear with 
a gift, or a kind act in the past may
  bear fruit today. It seems that your 
attentions are riveted on the past through
  the happy events of the present. Joy 
and contentment fill your heart; you
  should share these feelings 
with those around you.
  Your environment changes somehow. 
Either you find yourself in new
  places with new people, both of which 
promise good returns, or your old
  environment receives new vibrancy 
through fresh opportunities and
  relationships.
Through subtle persuasion,   you can win others to your way of thinking.
They will follow your strong lead because   you are presently tuned in,
psychically and intuitively.
  You can achieve any goals you set for yourself
  now, if you maintain a steady 
application of personal energy. Your
  enthusiastic attitude and flair for the 
dramatic during this cycle impresses
  others and aids you in gaining the 
support you need to be successful.
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: Six of Cups. 
The six cups are brimming with
  flowers, showing fruition. The 
five-pointed-star flower indicates human
  emotions purified and transmuted into 
compassionate love. The childish
  male figure in the Fool’s cap recalls 
key 0, or Uranus, which, exalted in
  Scorpio, here implies that the highest 
gift is purified love. The cross,
  commonly called Saint Andrew’s 
cross, is the cross of humility. The
  significance is that while we “become as 
little children” (Matthew 18 verse 3) or
  believe as little children on the earthly 
plane, we manifest our progress. 
  ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: 
Second decan Scorpio. Unique
  experiences come into your life. 
Sometimes it is a sorrow which quickens
  your sympathies or otherwise turns your 
ideas toward the spiritual. You are
  willing to share with others; at all 
times you perform what you believe to be
  your duty as a good citizen. This area 
of the zodiac is at a peak of the solar
  year. Great creative power is a birth 
endowment here. Many musical and
  scientific geniuses have been born at 
this time of year. You get along well
  with others unless they try to dominate 
you; then the quiet rebel within you
  comes to the surface. For the most 
part your charm outweighs your
  aggressiveness, and much happiness 
and achievement is rightfully yours.
  47/11 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER 
VIBRATION: This is a master
  number vibration. During your 
lifetime you will face many tests of
  character and emotional stability. 
There is conflict between the emotional
  and practical sides of your nature; 
therefore, determination, caution and tact
  must be your watchwords. To perform 
at the most efficient level, you need
  to have a goal. Once you do, your 
personal charm and magnetism will sway
  others, and you will be offered the 
wealth and glamour of the world.
  Great dreams of success and wealth 
dance in your head; visions of
  grandeur take form in your imagination. 
Your abilities to influence others,
  inspire confidence and attract 
affection assures success; success that
  worldly people imagine they want. There 
is a flaw, however. As you attain
  these treasures one by one, you begin 
to realize that they do not bring the
  happiness you had expected. They do 
not have any real value. You are the
  epitome of the adage: "To whom much 
is given, much is required.” You are
  required to use discrimination - to 
weigh, test, balance and discard. 
  Use silence and imagination to gain 
wisdom and inspiration. When your
  emotions are controlled, inspiration 
guides your life. You learn to handle
  money well and would be good in 
financial areas, such as banking or
  accounting. You also have great 
creative potential. You grasp new ideas
  easily and work with great speed. In 
whatever field you choose, you must
  express humanitarian qualities 
for a fulfilling life.
  You are adaptable, yet you have a 
strong will which helps you meet
  unexpected challenges. Use your 
natural and spiritual riches to bring
  stability and harmony into the lives 
of others. Learn the necessary
  discrimination to make the right 
choices. Do not mistake emotion for love
  or allow your illusions to 
affect your need for reality. 
  47/11 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
Discrimination, dreams
  fulfilled. This master number vibration 
demands additional effort from you
  but promises greater dividends. Do not 
sit back and build castles in the air.
  You could scatter your creative energies 
in the fanciful pursuit of success.
  Many of your imagined desires can 
become realities now if you develop
  realistic methods to achieve them. You 
need willpower and determination to
  implement the ideas that you select as worthy.
Many temptations can arise to distract   you from the actual purpose of this
cycle. These temptations will test your   discriminative faculties. You will
have to decide, through weighing,   selecting and discarding, where your true
values lie. Maintain a balance between the   emotional and practical factors
and make your plans accordingly.
  You may have mystical or psychic 
experiences. Use those experiences
  and rely on your intuition for guidance. 
Make your choices wisely during
  this cycle; be ever aware of the true 
value behind the illusions you see. The
  proper selections can bring 
true love, happy marriage,   material prosperity
and spiritual peace.
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: Seven of Cups. 
The figure stands facing seven
  cups filled with symbols of the gifts and 
tests to be handled during this life.
  These seven are: vanity, fame, ego, 
illusion, jealousy, frivolity and glamour.
  All are nebulous (floating on clouds). 
They represent what the worldly
  person imagines are desirable, but as 
they are attained one by one, it is
  realized that they do not bring 
happiness or any real value in life. 
  ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: 
Third decan Scorpio. You may
  experience many domestic changes 
which will demand that you develop
  patience. You have ESP, which can be 
developed into prophetic or healing
  power. Strong interest in the occult, 
inherent in all the Scorpio decans, is
  especially strong in the third because 
of the trinity of rulers: the Moon,
  Neptune and Pluto. You are a romantic. 
Because you are deeply affectionate
  and loyal, you would become deeply 
depressed if the object of your love
  proved faithless. Try to be cautious in 
placing your affections. Do not build
  up illusion over any human being; 
to do so opens the possibility of
  disappointment. You handle money 
well and would do well in financial
  pursuits. You are flexible without 
being wishy-washy. Weakness is no part
  of your character.
48/3 AS A PERSONAL   NUMBER VIBRATION: Worldly success
comes to you quite easily; however,   as each possession is gained, you set it
aside and go on searching for the satisfaction   it should have brought. You
yearn for something more,   and when you realize that the material world
alone cannot offer you the necessary fulfillment,   you may turn toward the
spiritual. You should not,   however, turn your back completely on the
mundane, for that could obstruct the   practical mechanics of living. Learn to
use the material, without depending on it.
  You are romantic, sincere and 
affectionate. You have high ideals. You
  appreciate beauty and the arts and have 
your share of creative ability. Your
  psychic and prophetic abilities are 
well developed. Your impressionable
  nature would find the arts a 
good channel for success. 
  You are quiet, persistent and 
dependable. But you may be too psychic
  and sensitive for your own comfort. 
You have a good sense of values and
  prefer to live conservatively. You 
believe in giving a good day’s work to
  your employer. If you were the boss, 
you would expect the same from your
  employees. A sense of fair play is one 
of your assets. You have the ability to
  see both sides of a problem and judge fairly.
Learning to laugh in the face of difficulties   will relieve your intolerance
of the purely materialistic side   of life. You must remember that your keen
sense of responsibility toward others,   your sympathy for their suffering and
your desire to do your part in the   community and the world can be
expressed through material means   in many cases. Your love of animals and
need to protect them is expressed here   also. You must detach yourself from
materialism, though you may be required   to use materialistic means to
accomplish your mission.
  48/3 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
Success, success abandoned,
  travel. You have reason to celebrate. 
Many of your goals have been
  reached, and the rewards are forthcoming. 
You feel generous and loving;
  you want to share the good 
things with those around you.
  Horizons broaden, and as they do, new 
relationships form. Perhaps a new
  love is among them. Travel may be a 
part of the picture, lending even more
  excitement to an already festive 
time. Be aware that what seems most
  important now may turn out to be 
unimportant in the future. Know, too, that
  dissipation of energy can result in 
unstable conditions. If you find the goals
  you have attained bring little satisfaction, 
you should seek to operate from a
  higher level. Use your material gains 
to alleviate the sufferings of others.
  Some experience during this cycle 
may be the catalyst that turns your
  materialistic mind toward the 
spiritual and humanitarian realm.
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: Eight of Cups. 
There are eight full cups
  representing the three parts of the 
consciousness and the five senses, all
  under control (because the cups are 
upright). Yet the lone figure is leaving
  all that behind and walking toward 
the dark mountain of the unknown.
  Penetrating the mysteries hidden in 
the mountain will bring the wisdom
  being sought. The robe is red to signify 
desire for further knowledge. Under
  the guidance of the Sun and Moon (eclipse 
symbol), he is responding to his
  inner urge for something higher. 
ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE:   First decan Pisces. Sometimes
you worry over things that never   happen and expend unnecessary energy in
doing so. Develop a philosophy of faith   in yourself and in the future. You
are very sympathetic toward animals;   you will adopt a stray cat or dog who
seems unfed and unwanted. This comes   from your deep desire to help those
who suffer. This same understanding   includes people, of course. You are
hospitable and generous. You have   the gift of wisdom which makes you
kind and just toward others. Poets,   musicians and scientists are born in this
area of the zodiac. The poet Longfellow,   the pianist-composer Chopin and
the scientist Copernicus were   born in this decan. 
49/4 AS A PERSONAL   NUMBER VIBRATION: You are a person of
many gifts; executive ability, integrity,   intuition and a sense of justice, to
name just a few. You can apply   these attributes to practical business
enterprises and achieve excellent results.
  You are diplomatic in your relationship 
with others, patient and honest in
  conducting your affairs. You also have 
a sense of when to act and when to
  wait, an essential ingredient of success.
You have emotional control in both business   and personal matters.
Material success, physical   well-being and security go with this vibration.
Material happiness and contentment are yours.
  You love to display the good life 
you have attained. Your home will
  reflect this in the form of fine 
furnishings and full cupboards. This is the
  result of the pride and satisfaction you 
feel in your achievements. You enjoy
  good health and a hearty appetite. You 
are an example for others to follow
  by depicting what hard work and 
perseverance can ultimately bestow upon
  the achiever. 
If you are a dreamy 49 or 4,   you develop a lot of theories that are seldom
carried out. This is because success seems   to come too easily. Drive does
not seem necessary, and inertia   prevents you from attaining all that you are
capable of. You are more intent on personal   satisfaction than achievement,
and you can become sated by your   own desires. Insincerity creeps in, and
your ego inflates along with your body,   as a result of a gluttonous approach
to life. Ill health can result.
  However, the tendency under this 
vibration is toward a balance between
  the mind and emotions. This leads you 
onward and upward, in both mental
  and spiritual development.
49/4 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION:   Good health, satisfaction,
marriage to a wealthy individual.   This is an excellent cycle for business
matters, as long as you maintain an honest,   persevering attitude. Through
steady application, the coffers   are filled, and you feel a sense of satisfaction
and physical accomplishment at a job well done.
  Outer comfort lends inner tranquility, 
a healing balm for any ailment.
  Your optimistic, serene attitude will 
bring about improvements in health.
  You may put on weight; therefore, be 
selective of the type and amount of
  food you eat.
Marriage here will usually   involve wealth and may be for security instead
of, or along with, love. The home will be well   supplied with food and
material comforts.
  Be careful not to overindulge in food 
or drink. Examine your pursuits and
  desires now. Will they lead to 
freedom from anxiety, poverty and
  insecurities or just replace one 
set of restrictions with another?
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: Nine of Cups. The 
seated figure is the picture of
  physical and emotional well-being. His 
cups are full and he is protected by
  the blue curtain of the creative 
mind. A balance of mind and emotions
  always brings material success and 
inner satisfaction. This is the card of
  fulfilled hopes and wishes.
ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE:   Second decan Pisces. This is a
  sensitive and affectionate decan. You 
are unusually fond of your home and
  family. You are tenacious in your 
attachments and may have to learn to give
  others the same kind of freedom you 
want for yourself. Your psychic nature 
  is well developed. Your intuitions are 
keen and helpful as you believe more
  and more in yourself. You work 
better and live more happily when
  practical, emotional balance is 
gained; otherwise you may become
  hypersensitive. Use your fine 
strength of character wisely.
  50/5 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER 
VIBRATION: This is the vibration
  of lasting success and happiness. It 
bestows a life surrounded by friends and
  affection.
You are romantic and   intensely emotional. You are devoted to your
family, and you seek a mate who epitomizes   the perfect love. Personal
magnetism makes you attractive   to the opposite sex, so there should be
plenty of candidates to choose from.
  Your life will be one of activity and 
movement. You are a socializer who
  enjoys conversation and people. Public 
life may draw you. There you can
  use your eloquence in lecturing and 
public speaking for the pursuit of social
  betterment. You could also succeed 
in literature and science. You are
  especially good in mathematics and 
could work at accounting or analysis,
  professions that require your keen perception.
You are both creative and imaginative.   Your instinctive understanding of
others makes them seek your counsel.   Leadership comes naturally, and your
energies find constructive outlets.
  With all your possibilities for 
achievement, you nevertheless prefer
  beauty and pleasure to wealth and 
fame. Your contentment comes from love
  of family and friends. You enjoy 
being able to move freely in, and
  communicate with, the world around 
you. All numbers containing 0 bestow 
  divine protection, and your sense of 
security shows in your relaxed and
  confident personality.
A negative use of these energies   brings waste, loss of or betrayal by
friends, and family troubles. You will   seek freedom from all responsibilities
and become enslaved by this very need. 
  50/5 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
Love, family ties, happy
  changes. This is an extremely active 
period of socializing with family and
  friends. Happiness and contentment 
abound. A special person may enter
  your life, one who represents your 
ideal image of a perfect mate. The love
  relationship that ensues will 
bring lasting enjoyment.
  Many happy changes occur now. You 
may move into a new environment
  which promises greater fulfillment, or 
you may alter the present situation to
  your benefit.
You may receive honors and gifts.   They are the rewards of past efforts,
for which you could also receive   public recognition. Conversations,
messages, letters and meetings bring   good news and promising
opportunities.
  However, the overall energies of this 
period encourage you to relax, take
  a trip, and enjoy the fellowship of 
good friends and the pleasures of close
  family ties. A negative use of these 
same energies can cause family
  dissension and difficulty with friends.
TAROT SYMBOLISM: Ten of Cups. Ten full,   upright cups are elevated in
the heavens. They are the rainbow   of happiness fulfilled. The man and
woman embrace, exalting the elevation   of emotional life to a high state of
consciousness. The children dance   happily under the protective rainbow of
promise. All good things of earth are pictured:   lush green growth, water and
the house, which denote permanence   of achievement. Here, love has been
raised to the plane of compassion.
  ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: 
Third decan Pisces. The
  natives of this last Piscean cycle are 
endowed with a psychic and intuitive
  nature. The practical side needs 
developing. Learn to use logical thinking
  with your intuition to bring about wise 
conclusions. Learn not to be easily
  led by stronger and more aggressive 
natures. You are really more likely to
  be right if you follow what intuition tells 
you. Learn to interpret its signals. 
  This is the final cycle of the solar 
year. It contains strong vibrations for
  happiness if you make positive choices 
and form constructive habits for
  progressive action toward your spiritual goal.
FOUR: THE SWORDS.
  51/6 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER 
VIBRATION: You apply the spirit
  of a warrior to whatever cause you 
choose. Your leadership ability and your
  desire to uphold truth and justice 
qualify you for such a profession as the
  law, government or the military. You 
are intelligent and perceptive; you are
  able to make sound judgments, based 
on the facts, balanced with mercy.
  You adhere to the teachings of the 
past. You exercise firm authority that
  serves you well in friendships, 
but can often prolong enmities.
  You could be successful in the sciences 
such as chemistry or medicine.
  You probably lean toward professions 
in the law or the military, where life
  and death decisions are commonplace 
and where you can exercise your
  wisdom and sense of balance.
You have an active mind, full of   ideas which could bring you abundant
wealth. Because of your abilities,   you will advance in any under taking. You
are cautious, yet you seem to walk through   life untroubled, even in the
midst of turmoil. You keep on   smiling and talking cheerfully while
subduing your inner fears; however,   you are ever alert and observant and
always prepared for all possibilities.
  There is a remote possibility of 
assassination threats if you are in
  prominent public office.
An imbalance in this vibration can   make you overly stem or cruel. Your
harsh actions many times result in   legal difficulties. You create enemies in 
your relentless drive for power; these rivals   resent your injustices and stand
ever ready to take revenge.
  51/6 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
Legal dealings, justice,
  perception, authority. During this 
cycle, disagreements and hostilities can
  result in lawsuits or legal dealings 
of some kind. You must be alert and
  stand guard against the harsh actions 
of rivals. However, injustices will be
  corrected. The law of balance will be 
rule. True and false will be separated.
  Maintain a cool, impartial attitude. 
Weigh all cases fairly to uphold the
  law. Your mind is keen, perceptive 
and extremely active now. Rely on it
  now to find alternative procedures for 
handling your affairs. Keep a positive
  outlook, a cheerful frame of mind 
and a vigilant attitude. You are the
  warrior fighting for the right; 
you will overcome all rivals.
  The challenging ideas that arise 
within can bring you the success and
  authority you desire. Listen 
carefully and follow your intuition.
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: King of Swords. 
A seated figure holds the
  upraised sword of activity, keen 
perception and discrimination. The screen
  behind the throne displays the 
butterfly, symbol of recurring life and
  circumstances. The waxing and the 
waning moons symbolize ever-changing
  ideas and opinions. The sword divides 
the false ideas from the true. The
  king sees the crux of the matter, and 
with swift justice sets matters right.
  ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: 
First decan Libra. You are
  intelligent and perceptive. You have 
the ability to judge both sides and to
  make keen assessments. You are likely 
to advance in any undertaking; you
  are untroubled in the midst of turmoil, 
for you keep smiling and talking
  cheerfully. You balance your 
intelligence with mercy; you are truly a
  warrior fighting for right and justice. 
52/7 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are high
  minded, noble and humanitarian, 
uncontaminated by the sordid side of life.
  You stand alone because your wisdom 
places you above the multitudes.
  Supported by the experiences of the 
past, you face the uncertainties of the
  future with confidence. Changing 
events and conditions do not dim your
  faith; you maintain your poise even 
under occasional emotional stress. You
  can always draw from your power reserve.
Most likely you are well-educated. Your   liberal ideas allow your quick,
perceptive mind to understand   things beyond the ordinary person’s ability
to comprehend. This quality sets you apart,   and you may decide to close the
door to the material world and live   a solitary existence in the spiritual
realm. Because of these factors,   this vibration is known as one of
separation, sterility and widowhood.
  You are kind, patient and courageous. 
You try to live a well-balanced life.
  You finish whatever tasks you begin. 
However, you are more interested in
  the philosophical and spiritual than the 
material. You love nature and prefer
  to live in the country.
If you express the negative side,   you are narrow-minded and mean. Your
jealousy drives others away,   assuring that you will have a solitary life.
Gossip, harsh words and a bigoted attitude   further alienate even the most
understanding friends. You seem   determined to be alone, although the drive
to be alone may be entirely unconscious.
  52/7 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
Change, separation, meditation.
  Changing conditions may separate you 
temporarily from familiar lifestyle
  patterns and you may experience a 
period of solitude in which you feel 
  lonely and isolated. This is necessary 
to stimulate thoughts and ideas related
  to the spiritual world.
You must learn to strike a balance between what
  appears to be real and what is real. 
In this manner you discover what has
  real value for you.
Trips into the country   or to the seashore are therapeutic for you now.
Take along a few books on philosophy and religion   and allow your mind to
travel as well.
  Remember that the separations 
during this cycle are part of the
  everchanging rhythm of life, and 
changes bring new opportunities and
  challenges.
TAROT SYMBOLISM:   Queen of Swords. The queen sits on a throne
  decorated with butterflies, symbols 
of incarnation and reincarnation. She
  holds the active sword raised to 
discriminate between true and false. Her
  left hand is extended toward the unknown 
future, but she is ready to face
  whatever comes. She knows she has 
experience as her foundation, and she
  can draw upon that. Although the Sun 
is obscured by clouds, denoting that
  more is to be revealed, she is 
confident of the future. The waxing and
  waning moons on her throne show changing 
conditions. She leans on divine
  protection, symbolized by cherubs on 
the throne. Her throne is set high
  where the air is pure and uncontaminated 
by the sordid side of life. The
  single bird overhead indicates the 
solitude she has chosen because her
  wisdom sets her apart.
ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE:   Second decan Libra. Venus
and Uranus hold sway in the second decan   of Libra. They produce a high-minded humanitarian. 
You lean to the spiritual and prefer the quiet
  atmosphere of the country where 
your mind can meditate without the
  distraction of city noises. You are 
intelligent, quiet and introspective. Your
  great wisdom may set you 
apart from the common crowd.
  53/8 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER 
VIBRATION: You know that you
  have a lot to accomplish and no effort 
is too great, no obstacle too difficult.
  You like authority and know how to 
assert it; however, your assertiveness
  may be construed as tyrannical. Because 
your head rules your heart, you
  may seem set and severe, but you rule 
with a pure heart and chivalrous
  motives.
Protection and defense   against danger are your main concerns. Rather
than sit back and wait, you prefer to be   the aggressor. You make progress
through your skill and ability to   lead. Your bravery in the face of danger
would make you a fine military leader.
  You could also excel in law as a 
criminal lawyer or judge. You have the
  necessary intellectual and communicative 
skills to sway others. With your
  strength and fine sense of timing, you 
could achieve professional status in
  any of the aggressive contact sports.
You have the ability to separate   fact from fiction; no detail escapes your
notice. Your fine power of discrimination   would make you an excellent
detective.
  If you are a negative 53 or 8, you 
always seem ready for a fight. Your
  cockiness alienates others, and you 
seem to leave destruction in your wake.
  Chivalry degenerates into extravagance, 
and you become incapable of
  dealing with the situations 
that arise in your life. 
  53/8 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
Sudden events, courage,
  discrimination. Someone or something 
is about to catapult into, or out of,
  your life. The situation is intense. 
You should play the aggressor and take
  things into your own hands. Keep 
your emotions under the command of
  reason and act justly.
Challenging situations arise   suddenly. You will need strength, courage
and perseverance to handle them. Business,   finance and the law may be
involved. Deal wisely with   whatever you encounter, and use reason to
discriminate among the facts presented.   Then you will overcome all 
problems and maintain, or achieve,   a position of authority. During this
period troubles come and go.
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: Knight of 
Swords. This Knight has a lot to
  accomplish during the autumn season. 
He rides far and fast. Riding against
  the wind shows that no effort is too 
great and no obstacle too severe for him
  to overcome. His raised sword shows 
him the true path by dividing the true
  from the false. 
ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE:   Autumn (Libra, Scorpio,
Sagittarius). During the fall,   people prepare for the long winter by storing
supplies. Oversight can mean disaster.   Because you have an eye for detail
you would make a good detective. You   are determined and may at times
seem severe, but you must be able   to maintain a balance and discriminate
between the useful and the useless. You are   courageous and have leadership
potential.
  54/9 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER 
VIBRATION: You are witty,
  intelligent and eloquent. Those gifts 
assure you the respect of your peers.
  You have a keen practical and perceptive 
mind. You pursue your education,
  as you have a natural tendency to seek 
answers. You can adjust mentally to
  the demands of the environment. These 
talents make you a prime candidate
  for government work or the diplomatic services.
You are always vigilant and seem   prepared for any possibilities. Your
subtle approach to difficulties belies   your ability to arrive at swift, just
conclusions. You are dedicated to the   institutions and laws of the past, and 
you prefer to use intellectual processes   rather than physical force to find
solutions.
  Your restless nature is something for 
you to overcome. You are amiable,
  humanitarian and conventional in your 
ways. These qualities help you deal
  successfully with your problems. You 
desire peace and reject the frills of
  life. You enjoy good health 
and a long, fulfilling life.
  If you are a negative 54 or 9, you are 
cunning and sly. You use your fine
  intellect to outwit others. You 
scatter your energies and deplete your
  resources, which brings on health 
problems. But your scheming will be
  revealed, and you will be 
exposed for what you are.
  54/9 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
Vigilance, messages, secrets.
  Maintain a vigilant attitude during 
this cycle. Keep your imagination under
  control. You are unaware of some 
elements in certain situations, but they
  will be revealed to you. Adhere to 
your proper execution of justice, and
  those who work against you will be 
defeated. You must mentally adjust to
  unforeseen events which arise now. 
Look for the truth beneath superficial
  appearances, so that you will be 
prepared when the truth emerges.
  You may receive news or messages 
that will demand your energy.
  Successful conclusions can be reached 
if you keep your emotions under
  control. Others may be observing your 
actions during this cycle to see how
  you handle yourself. If they are enemies 
they wait for a vulnerable moment;
  if friends, they wait to see how you 
perform. Your actions can earn you a
  position of authority and respect. 
Illness is an enemy, so take care of your
  body. Eat well and allow enough time for rest.
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: Page of Swords. 
This Page is without frills or
  decorations. He has a practical mind 
which is at work revealing the truth.
  Truth is somewhat hidden behind the 
clouds in the background, but the air
  element, symbolized by the birds as 
roving thoughts, will aid him in
  attaining his goal. However, 
investigation and mental application are
  required.
ASTROLOGICAL   CORRESPONDENCE: Third decan Libra. This decan
includes the rulers of all the air signs,   Venus, Uranus and Mercury. A
restless nature and an amiable   disposition are found here. You are witty,
intelligent, very sociable and humanitarian.   You have a natural ability to 
communicate and you sway others   with your words. You are a natural
scholar, and will most likely gain the   respect of your colleagues. You will
live a long and healthy life.
  55/1 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER 
VIBRATION: You are perceptive
  and therefore equipped mentally to 
explore any project, idea or concept.
  You have the ability to reason and 
the talent to write. As a dominating
  leader you reflect honest, high-minded 
and ethical ideals which inspire
  others to follow you.
You are a pioneer, exuberant   and energetic. You react intensely and are
capable of extremes in all endeavors and   pursuits. You are a champion of
right and seek swift justice to   maintain balance. You believe in law and
order and try to remain poised between   mercy and severity.
This number dominates   religion and morals, and you may be drawn
toward the law or the ministry where you   can most adequately express your
keen sense of justice and mercy.
  You can ferret out information that 
others would overlook. You are a
  natural researcher, and would make an 
excellent librarian. Words fascinate
  you, and writing is another area in 
which you can fulfill your basic need to
  explore and reveal the secrets of life.
Your writings would have tangible values   for others. Through your love
of communication you will meet   many different types of individuals in your
lifetime. Many children may grace your home,   in keeping with your
productive nature. Your children   will benefit from your principles and may
achieve distinction in their given fields. 
  Negatively, your keen ability to make 
fine distinctions deteriorates into a
  confused and chaotic lifestyle. Erratic 
actions create obstacles, alienate
  friends and produce a sterile, lonely 
environment. A stem attitude results. 
  55/1 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
Honor, birth, clarity. You may be
  honored now for some achievement 
in which you have expressed
  intellectual and leadership skills. It 
is the culminating triumph, the reward
  for prolonged endeavor. Since this is 
a period of culminations, separations
  are a possibility.
An affair may end and people   may leave your circle, thus
altering your environment in   some manner. This suggests that you are
through with the elements of that relationship.
  Religious and legal considerations may 
arise here. This vibration can also
  bring the birth of a very special child 
who will in some way bring light and
  inspiration to the world. The triumphs 
of this period may set you off on a
  new journey that will require 
your energy and integrity.
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: Ace of Swords. 
The Hand of God holds the
  upraised sword of discrimination. 
The golden crown studded with rubies
  shows the honor that comes to those 
who use their mental powers wisely.
  The holly branch hanging from the 
crown represents the Christmas season
  and therefore birth. The palm branch 
depicts Easter and the resurrection.
  The six falling yods, symbolic of the 
developing sixth sense, are the divine
  sparks that continually fall into incarnation,   in a never-ending cycle of birth
and resurrection.
  ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: 
The element air (Gemini,
  Libra, Aquarius). As a representative 
of the element air, you are mentally
  equipped to conquer any field you 
choose. Your mind is your greatest
  weapon and tool. It will eventually 
place you in positions where you must
  maintain balance in dispensing justice. 
You are a pioneer in the realm of
  thoughts, and others will look to you for ideas. 
56/11 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION:   56 or 11 is a master
number and thus requires more effort   on your part. There is nervous energy
under this vibration. Through self   control you can achieve and maintain a
balance between your emotions and your intellect.
  You are perceptive and discriminating 
and do not judge by appearances
  alone. You make impartial decisions 
based on your intuition which is
  founded on reason. You may gain fame 
and fortune through the proper use
  of these talents.
You are a natural peacemaker,   and you like to create happy conditions
around you. Strife is distasteful to you,   and you are able to establish
harmonious conditions in the midst   of changing and unexpected situations.
You are poised, modest and agreeable.   You enjoy being popular so you
develop one of your best qualities,   which is charm. You are flexible and can
yield to the opinions of others. You are   affectionate and loyal to your
family, sympathetic and responsive   to the troubles of those around you.
Military personnel and members of the   government may be among your
circle of friends.
  Music appeals to your finely attuned 
sense of rhythm. You are balanced
  and make an effort to stay that way. 
Music is a reminder of that balance.
  You will be successful in business. 
You sense what the public wants and
  needs, and you know how to supply it.
If you express the negative, these fine   qualities are reversed and will
cause indecisiveness. You will   be unable to choose wisely. Associates will
prove untrustworthy and trouble will result.   You will live an unproductive
life.
  56/11 AS A TEMPORARY 
VIBRATION: Balance, decisions,
  cooperation. This is a master number 
cycle. It demands more from you, but
  it offers greater rewards in return. 
Balance and self-control are necessary
  during this period of nervous energy. 
You must remain impartial. Do not
  base decisions and judgments on 
appearances. A favorable financial
  outcome may hinge on your ability to 
perceive the situation as it really is.
  You are attuned to the needs of 
others. You can play the role of
  peacemaker, settling disagreements at 
work and trouble in the family. As
  you project affection and understanding, 
you create harmony and a sense of
  well-being. You should be willing to 
help those in need, because, during
  this cycle, you have the insight to bring 
about settlements that are agreeable
  to all. Refusal to exercise these 
qualities results in indecision and
  stalemates. Matters go wrong because 
of a lack of direction which you
  could now supply.
Be aware of the people you deal   with. Some will not be honest with you.
This will require more understanding   and impartiality on your part.
TAROT SYMBOLISM: Two of Swords.   The figure is dressed in white to
denote spiritual purity. Her hair is   black (lack of light) and it is bound by
the white band of wisdom. Her position   is one of perfect balance. The
Moon stands for the subconscious,   and the rocks symbolize that which is
stable, permanent or decided upon by   the conscious mind. The figure is
sitting on a cube of stone which shows   a firm foundation for her
convictions.
  ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: 
First decan Libra. Balance
  and justice are keywords for this 
decan. You have clear vision and keen
  perception. You are artistic, graceful 
and congenial. You prefer mental work
  to physical labor. You are fastidious 
because cleanliness is important to you.
  You avoid any career that necessitates 
messiness or dirty hands. You like
  variety and may not stay long in one 
job. You need to learn perseverance.
  You are usually optimistic and pleasant.
You are a peacemaker and will go   all out to avoid stress and strife. 
57/3 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: The positive
  expression of this vibration results in 
a charitable nature, with ability to
  understand others and help them with 
their problems. If the vibration is
  negative, you may experience 
disappointment and heartache. Do not allow
  yourself to indulge in self-pity; rather, 
develop your sense of humor. This is
  often an outlet for the more intense 
emotions that can be part of your life.
  You are dependable and serious and 
possess strength and courage in the
  face of adversity. Your happiness 
reflects your integrity in equal measure.
  You feel a conflict between reason 
and emotions; therefore, you should
  cultivate the art of logic to avoid 
being carried away by impulse.
  You have the artistic ability to 
express your fluctuating moods. You can
  portray them in pantomime or on the 
stage. Acting and the theater provide
  fine outlets for your creative talents. 
You may prefer to work behind the
  scenes, as a playwright for instance, 
and give support to those who enjoy
  the limelight more than you. Some of 
the most interesting people under this
  vibration are those you may never 
hear of, because they have done their
  greatest work in the background.
You are independent and progressive,   with humanitarian ideals. Become
a strong force for good in the world,   and you will feel that your sojourn on
earth has been meaningful and well spent.
  Yours is the number of the understanding 
heart, although it may have
  been gained through suffering. You 
mature through your experiences.
  As a negative 57 or 3, you suffer 
losses and experience confusion. You
  become depressed and bitter and reject 
the extended hands of friendship
  because you fear being hurt. 
Separation and loneliness result.
  57/3 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
Separation, delay, expression,
  growth. Maintain a logical approach to 
emotional situations that arise now.
  Do not bemoan your fate; work on your 
sense of humor and try to see, from
  a detached point of view, the frailties 
of human nature. Your happiness
  depends on your integrity.
You may experience many ups   and downs under this vibration; therefore,
you would be wise to find a creative outlet   to express these moods
constructively. Acting,   music, poetry or painting are good outlets.
There can be separations and disappointments   in love relationships; those
you love may be absent for a   time. Expect some delays. If this is a negative
vibration, your fluctuating moods could bring on   confusion in deciding
what to do.
  Use the experiences of this cycle 
for growth. The wisdom you gain here
  should be made available to those 
around you who need kind words and a
  gentle heart.
TAROT SYMBOLISM:   Three of Swords. Three swords pierce a heart.
They look like crosses, suggesting that those   who bear their crosses bravely
become more sympathetic and tolerant   of others. The heart is also a symbol
of charity. The clouds indicate that   the brighter side is hidden and that all
your natural attributes are not immediately   apparent. There is a need to
develop spiritual discernment.   If negative, self-pity is your weakness.
ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Second decan Libra.
  Perseverance, integrity and the drive 
to achieve are important attributes of
  this decan of Libra. You have vitality 
and a sense of humor. You are a
  humanitarian who will work to improve 
conditions that seem unfair. You
  are honest and faithful in your dealings 
with others and often give them the
  benefit of the doubt. Sometimes this 
results in your own heartbreak. You
  would rather suffer yourself, though, 
than cause injustice for others. You
  can appear aloof, but at heart 
you are keenly sensitive. 
  58/4 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER 
VIBRATION: You are a logical
  thinker and a skillful worker. A 
career in medicine or metaphysics is
  possible as this number is related to 
sight and insight. You are introspective
  and you tend to analyze a problem 
very thoroughly before you decide to
  act. You are dependable and cautious,   and you use your energies carefully
for constructive purposes only.
  People respect you for your honesty 
and fairness. You have a keen sense
  of justice, yet you believe in mercy. 
You want your life to be orderly and
  conventional because you believe in 
tradition and discipline; however, you
  will enjoy life and its pleasures. You 
are charming, affectionate, careful, and
  yet emotionally controlled. Your 
creativity shows in your love of beauty,
  harmony and peace, which you need, 
and work to preserve, in your life.
  You could be a talented writer. You 
have a keen eye for details and the
  ability to analyze a situation and come 
to logical conclusions. Others seek
  you out for this very reason. You 
also have a fine sense of honor.
  There is a great mental activity with 
this vibration, and there may be
  traveling. You enjoy solitude when 
you can relax and meditate. These
  periods bring things into perspective 
for you and help you maintain your
  generally good health.
You may eventually decide to put away material
  considerations for spiritual pursuits. 
You are courageous and, although you
  prefer to live a life of peace and 
solitude, you are ready to take action to
  preserve your peace. You have earned a 
rest from the strains of life and will
  express that peace in this lifetime.
A negative 58 or 4 causes unrest and   dissension; ill health and perpetual
convalescence may be the result. Social   unrest could lead to retreat and
exile.
  58/4 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
Rest, relief, retreat,
  convalescence. This is a period of 
retreat in which your mind seeks rest
  from the cares of the world. Conflicts 
have ended, worries are over; now
  you desire peace and quiet to gather 
your strength. You can now analyze
  your situation and logically decide how 
to proceed. You are able to put even
  the smallest details of your life into 
perspective and clearly see what has
  real value.
Your solitude may be a convalescent period after   an illness, a self-imposed vacation for rest and 
relaxation or an enforced retreat arising from
  social unrest. Whatever the impetus 
that propelled you to this space, it
  requires concentration and meditation 
on the experiences that have brought
  you here. If used wisely, this period 
can lead to a change for the better. The
  conclusions you arrive at subconsciously 
will affect your future actions.
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: Four of Swords. 
The figure has assumed the
  proper position for rest, inferring that 
rest from anxiety and strain has been
  earned. The swords are put away; three 
hang on the wall, and one is placed
  lengthwise along the couch. This shows 
that, if need be, action would still
  be taken to preserve peace. This is a 
card of peace and quiet, not death. The
  window depicts outer activity. A man 
is shown kneeling before a woman,
  symbolizing that the conscious mind 
(male) is still a slave to the
  subconscious (female). To the resting 
figure all is serene; the sword of
  discrimination has been used and put away.
ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE:   Third decan Libra. The
mental side of Libra is strong   in this decan; therefore, intellectual pursuits
will attract you. You could do well in teaching,   preaching, lecturing or
writing. You have an amiable   disposition and a refined manner, and you are
extremely adaptable. You are logical and   fair and believe in mercy and
kindness. This is really the most   balanced of the Libra decans. You have the
integrity to be a judge. Your standards   are high. Your greatest desire is for
order, harmony, beauty and peace in your life. 
  59/5 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER 
VIBRATION: You are passionately
  devoted to your convictions and will 
stand firm to defend your rights. You
  should strive to keep away from danger 
or injury. You are a gambler. You
  want to win by your wits, but you 
will experience defeat if you do not
  express yourself positively. Success 
as a banker or broker is possible as
  long as you neither take nor recommend 
speculative risks. Your mind is
  quick, and you need to guard 
against making impulsive decisions.
  Life will be full of experiences and 
travels. You may find yourself doing
  more than one thing at a time, but 
doing them all well. You are creative,
  versatile and charming. Your lively 
and sparkling personality can easily
  influence others, especially the opposite sex.
You are critical of your own efforts and   seek perfection. You are humane,
refined and sympathetic. You may   seek leadership positions where, as an
executive, ruler or conqueror, you can   use your idealism to implement
social reform. Your sensitivity   attracts you to the arts.
Select congenial outlets for   your talents and avoid the humdrum. This
will help you disperse your surplus energy   and maintain the peace and
serenity so necessary to   your health and well-being.
A negative 59 or 5 deserts   responsibilities. Your life becomes one of
degradation and defeat. Your cruelty   and unfairness in trying to outwit
others brings empty victories which   crumble and leave you with nothing.
You, and all 59’s, should aim   for higher consciousness.
59/5 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION:   Travel, change, responsibility.
Do not take speculative risks   under this vibration. You may tend to be more
impulsive now, so make an effort to think things   through before acting. This impulsiveness can also 
cause accidents and injury; therefore, maintain a
  moderate speed in your lifestyle.
There can be travel and a variety   of opportunities now. Excitement,
movement and romance make life more   interesting. Be careful that you
don’t follow your impulses blindly.   This can bring loss and slanderous talk,
and your reputation can be affected.
  Remain positive and accept your 
responsibilities; then you will come out
  on top. If you initiate changes after 
careful consideration, you will
  persevere. Situations encountered will 
be settled in your favor because you
  have the strength to stand 
up for what you believe.
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: Five of Swords. 
The figure in the foreground
  represents one who has finished the job.
The figure walking away has laid
  down his sword, but he is still not 
defeated; he merely shows that he knows
  when to fight and when to retreat. The 
other figure really is defeated and is
  weeping over this fact. This card represents 
three attitudes of mind. It shows
  that we must discriminate in all 
matters and stand on our convictions.
  ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: 
First decan Aquarius. To the
  Aquarian could be assigned the motto, 
“every person a brother or sister.”
  This is the sign of altruism. You are 
inspired by the concept of the Aquarian
  Age. You are intelligent and self-confident 
and determined to achieve your
  chosen goal. You are also willing 
to fight to preserve your ideals. 
  60/6 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER 
VIBRATION: You have the ability
  to examine reason as a human institution 
and then set it aside to make room 
  for true wisdom, untainted by preconceived 
ideas. You may follow a literary
  career although you can apply your 
mind to various pursuits with equal
  success. You prefer to work independently 
rather than in partnership.
  You are sought after for your cheerfulness, 
fairness, intelligence and self-confidence.   You make a good lawyer because 
clients feel secure with you.
  This vibration bestows a sense of 
power. You feel that you are under
  divine protection. People seek your 
advice and help because they also sense
  your healing qualities, both physical 
and mental. You are energetic and
  tirelessly strive toward a high goal 
of attainment. Nurses, advisors and
  managers are under this vibration. 
You are often deemed an idealist. You
  combine logic and imagination in a 
unique manner; this shows a fine
  balance between your conscious and 
subconscious minds. You are a leader
  with a sense of justice; if you find 
yourself becoming egotistical, balance
  that trend through generosity 
and consideration for others.
  You must earn your success through 
sustained effort and conscientious
  work. Do not expect results without 
application. You are creative and
  inventive. Some notable artists have 
been born in this vibration, but all of
  them labored faithfully for their successes.
Negatively, a 60 or 6 is a rebel. You pursue   your independent ways
regardless of the needs of   others. You may waste your fine mind and
creative talents in selfish endeavors.
  60/6 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
Passage, new home, proposals,
  love. After a period of struggle during 
this cycle, you are on your way to a
  successful and happy conclusion. The 
job is done, and you have paid your
  fare.
  There will be companionship, love 
and a meeting of minds. You may
  receive a proposal or invitation to 
join with another in a mutual endeavor
  which promises fulfillment. Someone 
may represent you in a meeting or
  you may deal with someone’s 
representative. There is a coming together
  aspect involved here. Travel is a 
possibility as this vibration indicates
  physical movement as well as mental. 
A new home and environment may
  result.
An element of justice is present.   Legal dealings may arise to bring about
the peaceful settlement of unresolved   issues. You may encounter lawyers,
judges or the courts in some way. 
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: Six of Swords. 
The man, woman and child
  represent the trinity in consciousness. 
They are moving to another shore.
  The water of the subconscious supports 
them. The man has no difficulty
  steering the boat because the water 
is calm. The swords are arranged in a
  line to act as a shield. The points 
are down, indicating that the work has
  been done. There is harmony within 
the minds and they are all moving in
  the same direction under the guidance 
of the conscious mind (man).
  ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: 
Second decan Aquarius. You
  are a discriminating individual. You 
seek goals beyond the material in the
  intellectual and spiritual realms. Your 
career could take you to many parts
  of the world. You have the desire to 
see and to investigate beyond the place
  of your birth. You have charm, intellect 
and a sense of power. Use your
  imagination constructively to make 
logical plans and get results that will
  benefit many. Often this takes place in 
artistic or literary fields. You have an
  uncanny ability to make your projects succeed. 
61/7 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION:   The keyword for a
61 or 7 is achievement. This is a   vibration of peace and sincerity. You have
control over your emotions and command   over others through your calm,
deliberate manner. You are patient   and sensible, and will achieve many of
your goals through concentrated effort.
  You are intellectual, refined and 
discriminating. You know intuitively that
  the future depends on the past, and 
you use past experiences to promote
  growth.
An interest in the occult and   mystical may lead you to work in a religious
or spiritual field and live a celibate life.   You are responsive and sympathetic
to the needs of others. You may be   idealistic but at the same time you are
willing to work for your goals. Your creed   is tolerance and you believe that
faith and spiritual development   can cure all ills.
Your well-rounded personality   and high ethical standards could lead to a
position as a foreign ambassador or diplomat.   Your tolerance and idealism
influence groups. You like to enjoy   yourself and you will travel because you
do not like to stay long in one place.
  You seek perfection and will always 
feel that you have not done as much
  or as well as you should. People may 
find you elusive; just when they think
  they have your number, you change 
unexpectedly. Some people find your
  actions contradictory; others see the 
seeds of greatness subtly hidden in
  your colorful personality.
A negative 61 or 7 never quite   succeeds. Your plans continually fall
through, and others take what you   feel is rightfully yours.
61/7 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION:   Health, travel, completion.
Listen to the good advice given   you during this cycle. That advice may
come from those in a position to know,   or from your inner self. Since you
need a period of quiet to hear and   think about this information, you will be
placed in a suitable environment to do so.
  Your health may require your 
attention. You may decide to take a
  sabbatical or vacation. Past efforts and 
attitudes are coming to fruition now;
  your success depends upon how well 
you have handled both. If your plans
  have failed or only been partially 
successful or if someone else has attained
  what you want, then examine your 
procedures. Faith, integrity and concern
  for others must dominate all your actions. 
Be tolerant of the errors of others
  now, and partial success may 
ultimately become a triumph.
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: Seven of Swords. 
The figure is hurrying away
  with an armful of swords. He turns 
around, wondering whether he should
  have taken the other two swords as well. 
This depicts uncertainty, hesitation
  and partial success. The tents also 
show instability for they are not
  permanent.
ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE:   Third decan Aquarius. You
form strong attachments or   partnerships. People seek you for advice
because of your perception and sense of   justice. You would make a good
lawyer or judge as you can easily   see both sides of a question, and would
evaluate fairly. You demonstrate a cool,   impersonal freedom in your own
conduct. You may be considered elusive,   yet you inspire confidence,
perhaps beyond what you yourself   may feel. To develop self-confidence,
practice discipline and emotional control.   Difficulties and uncertainties will
then be resolved.
  62/8 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER 
VIBRATION: You have the power
  to achieve wisdom and control of the 
forces within you, but you must not
  become a slave to the intellect, which 
casts off what it cannot understand
  through reason. You have an analytical 
and discriminating mind with an eye
  for detail. Order and regulation are 
important in your life. You are also
  efficient and could succeed in 
detailed work, such as chemistry,
  pharmacology or any science 
involving experimentation.
  You will develop your intellect to 
satisfy your curiosity and desire for
  knowledge. You are clever, inventive 
and inquisitive, and are willing to
  research to find answers. You may 
want to travel, but if no opportunity
  appears, you will indulge in mental 
flights instead. You write and compile
  facts and statistics with equal pleasure.
You are a thinker, quick and   perceptive. You dominate groups through
your ability to organize and get things done;   but you keep all activities
running in a practical and   efficient manner. You willingly accept
responsibility, but you never attempt   the impossible. Although aware of 
your limitations, you are confident   that you can overcome obstacles.
Through thought and care you always   seem to find a solution. You are
trustworthy and responsible,   a good neighbor and upright citizen. You want
justice to prevail and may participate in   community efforts to see that it
does.
  You like quiet. Sometimes you like 
solitude so you can meditate. Study
  philosophy and learn to use your inner 
eye to see spiritual qualities. In this
  realm you cannot be bound by material 
considerations. You will find the
  true wisdom you are capable of attaining.
If you are a negative 62 or 8, you are restricted   by the appearances of your
environment. You remain   in bondage to trouble, sickness and burdens until
you release yourself through true understanding.
  62/8 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
Impasse, restriction,
  responsibility. You may temporarily 
be involved in a situation which has
  reached an impasse or stalemate. You 
may feel restricted by your present
  surroundings and circumstances, or 
you may be censured or prevented in
  some way from expressing yourself.
Difficulties with relatives may come to a head.   Trouble and criticism
cause deeper conflicts which may   result in health problems. The selfish
motives of those you thought were   your friends may now be exposed.
However, if you are not afraid to   leave old habits and circumstances behind,
you will be free from fear, free to relax   and enjoy your newly acquired
insight. Take courses, meditate,   develop a sound philosophy which goes
beyond materialism; discover the joys   of the mind. Look within yourself
for real values in life; see beyond   the superficialities. If this has been your
modus operandi all along, this period will bring   the honor and recognition
you have earned.
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: Eight of Swords. 
Although the figure is bound and
  blindfolded, she has found the 
opening through the barrier of swords
  (crosses). She travels the pathway 
of water, showing the power of the
  subconscious mind which is always 
symbolized by water in the Tarot. The
  castles in the background show 
substantial past accomplishments.
  ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: 
First decan Gemini. The sign
  of the twins indicates duality. Those 
who are born in this area of the zodiac 
  crave variety. You are happiest when 
you have several projects going at the
  same time. You are physically nimble, 
especially clever in any sort of
  handiwork. You easily learn to play 
musical instruments because of your
  flexible fingers. This tendency is also 
useful if you wish to do secretarial
  work. Writing, radio or TV announcing 
would be good outlets for your
  talents. When a subject captures your 
interest you are a very good student.
  63/9 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER 
VIBRATION: You are a born
  missionary and reformer. You worry 
over the sorrows of the world. You
  seek truth and wish to work 
for the good of others.
  There is, in this vibration, a fine 
balance of heart and head. This allows
  you to promote your ideals but prevents 
you from taking on the suffering of
  others. You may encounter struggles 
in which your emotions must be
  sublimated if you are to be successful.
  You are generous in sharing your 
good fortune with others. You are
  sensitive and sympathetic and are always 
ready to lend a helping hand when
  the occasion requires. This concern 
for others often leads to the
  development of the gift of healing. 
Through this you gain great happiness.
  You are independent. Your greatest 
inner struggle may be the desire for
  success at the sacrifice of some personal 
happiness. Self-control, discipline,
  patience and acceptance of your finite 
nature is the way to balance this
  powerful and complicated vibration.
Artistic ability, clairvoyance and   perception balance your unique
personality. When you convert the   threatening situations of life into tools
with which to build a promising future,   then you overcome all obstacles.
You will have won the battle which   tries to chain the spirit to the mortal 
world. Your inspired faith in tomorrow,   against all odds, teaches and uplifts
others.
  If you are a negative 63 or 9 you 
become swamped in sorrows. You see
  nothing but pain and grief in your 
environment and thereby waste your
  promising potential as an 
agent for hope in the world.
  63/9 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
Struggles, unselfishness, healing.
  If doubts assail you and you find 
yourself worrying unduly during this
  cycle, it is because you must learn, 
through emotional turmoil, to become
  less emotional. As you become more 
attached to material things, you
  become increasingly sorry that you 
may lose them. This is a cycle of
  endings, when physical and 
mortal things must change.
  The struggles and delays you endure 
last only as long as your persistent
  attachment to them. You must exercise 
self-control over your emotions.
  Become patient, quiet and receptive. 
You have healing powers now. Turn
  from your personal anxieties and 
share the experiences you have gained
  with those who need your wisdom. You 
can solve the problems of others
  and earn peace of mind and attain fulfillment.
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: Nine of Swords. 
The woman has an attitude of
  despair, regret, and contemplation. 
The coverlet which is marked with the
  signs of the zodiac and the seven 
planets symbolizes the experiences that
  life has brought her. These bring sorrow 
only if we allow them to impel us.
  If we understand that difficulties are 
lessons for growth and development,
  sorrow is lessened, and courage replaces 
frustration. The nine swords are
  pointing east, toward the light; this 
indicates new beginnings in the dawning
  new day.
ASTROLOGICAL   CORRESPONDENCE: Second decan Gemini. This is
a more peaceful and less nervous Gemini decan,   as the combined rulership
of Mercury and Venus increases   your sympathy and compassion for
humanity. You enjoy the arts,   music and poetry. A chance for harmonious
partnership and love tends to produce   beauty and joy in your life. 
64/1 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION:   A 64/1 is extremely
individualistic and often   remains single. However, your magnetic
personality, tolerance, liberal views   and charitable ways draw joy and
affection into your life. You are   especially effective with groups. Happiness
and fellowship are more important to you than   fame or wealth.
The contacts
  you make will help you attain your 
goals, which may include wealth if you
  should so decide.
You want security in life   and you are willing to work for it. You have
fortitude, perseverance and determination;   you always finish a task even
though it is distasteful.
  You are intuitive and a good 
judge of human nature. Your keen
  intellectual perceptions will serve 
you well if you decide on a literary
  career, or decide to become a professor 
or public speaker. Professional work
  is better for you than efforts 
in the commercial field.
  Your conscious, subconscious and 
super-conscious minds work in
  unison, making almost anything possible 
for you through meditation and
  concentration on your life work. You 
are stable, honest and practical, a
  respected human being, who leads a 
proper life as a good neighbor and
  citizen. You know how to balance your 
responsibilities with recreation and
  rest. The lighter side of life lifts 
your spirits and provides a humorous
  respite.
Your will to win comes   from your strong positive attitude and
determination to let nothing get you   down. Scientific and spiritual matters
interest you. Once you have awakened the   life force, or kundalini, within
you and accepted the true nature   of reality, which is change, you will have
the power to overcome all negative forces.
  A negative 64 or 1 suffers many losses 
and failures. You cling desperately to
  the material world of fear. Because 
you hang on, each loss brings greater
  suffering. You have not learned to 
develop a spiritual belief in what cannot
  be seen but nevertheless exists: faith, 
and the immortality of the soul.
  64/1 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
Responsibility, tests, awareness.
  This is a perfect time to develop your 
inner awareness through some form
  of metaphysical discipline such as 
meditation, yoga, TM, mind control or
  the like. Through spiritual pursuits you 
will learn that change is a constant
  cycle in the universe; all things 
must die and be reborn in new forms.
  Detach yourself from the experiences 
in your life and you will acquire the
  wisdom and fortitude to 
persevere toward your goals.
  You can be your own worst enemy 
if you let sudden burdens and
  disappointments defeat you. There can 
be trials under this vibration. By
  handling them you open a door in your 
life and discover the path of your
  destiny. One special person may 
be on that path to accompany you.
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: Ten of Swords. 
The ten swords pierce the spine at
  the centers. (The force centers are 
points of connection at which energy
  flows in the etheric double of the body 
of a human being.) The red robe of
  desire drapes over the lower centers 
but is held fast by the awakened
  discriminative sense. The background 
colors, yellow and blue in equal
  proportions, show the balance of the 
two parts of mind: conscious and
  subconscious. The hilts of the swords 
in the form of crosses are throwing
  the white light of super-consciousness,   penetrating the black abyss of
unknown mysteries.
  ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: 
Third decan Gemini. A good
  intellect, mental stability and balance 
are the gifts of this decan. You have
  the power of concentration, and you 
very likely will pursue a career in
  science. You could pioneer in 
electronics or in energy production. You
  ability to judge human nature without 
prejudice or bias is a valuable asset in
  your business and social life. 
FIVE: THE PENTACLES.
  65/11 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER 
VIBRATION: This is one of the
  best master number 11’s for obtaining 
material success. You will succeed
  through your perseverance, intelligence 
and maturity. By harnessing your
  energies and directing them constructively, 
you create abundance in your
  life. Good things seem to come 
to you almost without effort.
  You are systematic and orderly, with 
a talent for organization. Others
  look to you for security. You are a 
natural leader who achieves power and
  authority in the business world, with 
control over large industries and
  businesses. Important people are in 
your sphere of influence; they can help
  you to advance your status and reach your goals.
You are practical and reserved and   invest your riches wisely for the
benefit of those around you. You are   a patron of literature and the arts. You
believe in education, good manners and a   conventional approach to life.
Your life will include a happy   marriage, surrounded by comfort,
productivity and powerful friends.
  A negative 65 or 11 uses money 
extravagantly in speculation, gambling and
  frivolity. You may even use your resources 
for evil ends. Your power is used
  for self-gratification through 
material pleasures and possessions.
  65/11 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
Promotion, risks, assistance.
  This is a master number period which 
requires more and, in return, gives
  more than any other number vibration. 
You can expect to elevate your 
  present status. Money, position and 
influence are yours. The rewards are in
  exact proportion to your previous output 
and, if this has been substantial,
  you will revel in the riches life gives you.
Influential people, especially of the opposite   sex, will help you advance
your position. You will have   the power you desire in your chosen field.
Maintain a practical approach to all affairs.   Share your good fortune with
others; you can afford to be   generous now. However, extravagance and
unwise speculation can lead to losses,   so keep a balance. Marriage under
this vibration is fruitful and successful. 
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: King of Pentacles. 
The King is dressed in a robe
  decorated with grapes; they symbolize 
fruitfulness and plenty. The Taurean
  symbols decorating the throne indicate 
money, possessions and material
  gifts. The buildings shown are not 
merely houses, but are castles of
  substantial size. Luxury is also evident 
in the heavy carving adorning the
  throne, and the golden crown topped 
with a wreath of roses, the symbol of
  elevated desires. Since the roses are 
on top of the crown, at the highest
  point of the figure, they indicate that 
the desires have been fulfilled. The
  mace in the king’s right hand is a 
symbol of authority and power. The
  golden pentacle in the left hand shows 
an ability to handle money wisely.
  ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: 
First decan Capricorn. This
  decan is Saturn-ruled and is the midheaven 
of the natural zodiac. It relates
  to honor, fame and ambition. If Capricorn, 
or any cardinal sign, is on the
  midheaven in your individual 
horoscope, some sort of prominence is
  indicated, depending on details in other 
parts of the chart. You have a talent
  for leadership and organization. You 
are persevering and thorough, thrifty 
  and industrious, systematic and 
orderly. Education and the arts are
  important to you. You have good taste 
and conventional manners. You are
  the aristocrat of the zodiac, the most 
noble of the numbers, expressed in
  high and serious goals.
66/3 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER   VIBRATION: You are intelligent,
thoughtful and responsible. Your   public-spirited and idealistic nature
inspires you to do something to   solve the social problems you see.
There is a practical side to your nature,   too. You use your talents wisely
and productively to achieve tangible   results. Your magnetism attracts
whatever you desire; as a result,   you achieve great wealth and security. You
are charitable and generous; you use your wealth   and talents to help those
who are less fortunate.   You are a truly noble person.
You appreciate the finer things in   life and you love to surround yourself
with beauty. Your home must be   comfortable and well decorated, as you
enjoy splendor if it is expressed in good taste.
  Flattery and deception have absolutely 
no place in your personality; truth
  and fairness rule your conduct. You 
are faithful and trustworthy, as you
  value your integrity. You are practical 
and determined in carrying out your
  plans. Others appreciate your sound 
business advice. Once you give your
  affection, you are a devoted partner 
and mate, supportive in every way.
  As a negative 66 or 3, you may refuse 
to accept responsibility because you
  fear failure. You end up very dependent 
on others, and even worse, you
  allow your vast talents to lie 
fallow and eventually die.
  66/3 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
Friends, money, travel. This
  period deals with the material aspects 
of life and the pleasures and comforts
  derived from it. Money and 
possessions are accentuated.
  You will gain
more affluence and prestige in   some manner. An influential friend may
assist you, or you could receive an   inheritance or promotion. The courts and
the legal profession could be involved.
  Educational pursuits will bring 
wealth and influence. If you have
  dreamed of a special vacation or trip, 
you will now have the funds to fulfill
  that desire. Enough money is available 
for you to feel opulent and secure.
  Your mind is very active now. Channel 
this energy to create a successful
  business or otherwise bring 
about tangible results.
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: Queen of Pentacles. 
The Queen is dressed in an
  elegant but conservative costume, which 
befits her character. Her throne is
  decorated with symbols of fruitfulness.   The goat, symbol of Capricorn, is
carved into the arms of the throne.   Flowers are in bloom all around her. The
hare is also a symbol of fertility   and productiveness. Cherubs always
indicate the protection of divine beings,   who radiate love, peace, happiness
and contentment.
  ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: 
Second decan Capricorn. The
  second decan of Capricorn, (Taurus 
dominant, Earth and Venus co-ruling),
  produces not only a practical individual 
with an eye on financial gains and
  prestigious positions, but also a 
determined, loyal and sometimes stubborn
  individual. It would be hard to imagine 
anyone with these qualities who
  would not become successful in 
whatever endeavor he or she chose.
  Certainly, with this number, this is the case.
67/4 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are a
  trustworthy, practical person and a 
good worker. Material progress and hard
  work are most important to you. You 
have matured to the point where you
  can pursue your goals without 
depending on others; you accept
  responsibility for your life and future. 
Persistence and hard work are your
  formulae for success and peace of mind.
You view the future calmly and methodically   plan for it. You handle
money well. It is, you feel,   a tool for cultivating more resources. You have
no anxiety over money because you have faith that   it will increase ten-fold
if invested wisely.
  You have a common sense approach to 
life. You are artistic, creative and
  inventive. These talents are used 
to perform a service to others. You
  produce the products that supply our 
personal needs and comforts. You
  nurture and protect the goods of 
your community so that others may
  eventually benefit from them. You 
satisfy your appreciation of beauty and
  derive emotional satisfaction from 
this. You win a victory over your world
  and earn your rest.
A negative 67 or 4 is lazy and   unproductive. You shirk responsibility and
want others to take care of you. You never   seem to have enough money or
other goods to supply your needs.
  67/4 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
Work, patience, firmness.
  Patience is a virtue now. You must be 
methodical; plan each step you take.
  Do not depend upon others for help; 
rather, use your own talents and
  resources to get ahead.
Money is an issue,   and budgeting may be necessary. Handle your
finances wisely. If you take care of money,   it will take care of you. By
performing services that supply vital   commodities for others, you can be
assured of financial success now.
  Do not allow your routine to become 
monotonous, but do maintain a
  steady drive to achieve your goals. 
Unemployment or difficulty with your
  job means you should look to your 
work habits and your attitude toward
  your position. If you are in the wrong 
profession, make a change. If you like
  your work, examine different avenues 
of approach until you find one that
  will benefit you and ultimately others.
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: The Knight of 
Pentacles. The Knight is pictured
  riding a work horse. He is contemplating 
work well done, while at the same
  time planning a course of action before 
he starts again. He considers the
  situation calmly to decide on the 
wisest moves. His weapon is money; he
  knows that a wise investment means 
power on the material plane. His
  helmet and the bridle of his horse 
are decorated with the leaves of the
  grapevine, symbolizing fruitfulness. 
The field ahead is an open plain,
  showing cultivation to be 
done as seasons come and go.
  ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: 
Winter (Capricorn, Aquarius,
  Pisces). This Knight presides over the 
winter season, when the fruits of 
  labor have been stored for the winter’s 
use and security. In this area of the
  zodiac much of the creative, inventive 
and artistic work is carried on, so it
  is with prudence that the Knight has 
stored the products of the harvest,
  allowing opportunity for other 
types of labor to continue.
  68/5 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER 
VIBRATION: You have a strong
  attraction for money and luxuries and 
may become infatuated by them. You
  enjoy beautiful surroundings and will 
learn how to earn them, probably
  through mental rather than physical 
labor. Through clever planning you
  achieve your goals. Because clever 
planning requires an acute mind, you
  respect learning. You are willing to 
listen to new ideas and take advice from
  others.
Although somewhat of an   introvert, you are a communicator whose
purpose is to bring your ideas into the   material world. You appear poised
and confident, an image you wish to   project; within, you are concerned and
careful about the decisions you make.   You are diligent and cautious as you
build for a permanent and comfortable   future. Strict attention to planning
and organization account for a   large share of your success.
As a negative 68 or 5 you can be   a schemer. You become obsessed with a
desire for material possessions.   This creates a sense of urgency which
obliterates all caution; waste and loss result.
  68/5 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
Education, planning, travel, new
  paths. Be careful; during this period 
an exaggerated materialism may
  prompt you to spend and react unwisely. 
Set about to achieve your desires 
  through proper planning and attention 
to details. Your organizational ability
  and receptivity to new ideas 
can be turned to profit.
  Someone you meet may be a catalyst 
in your decision to follow one
  course or another. Be flexible. Accept 
invitations to socialize and travel;
  they bring opportunities which aid 
you in building a sound future.
  Educational opportunities may arise; 
accept them for they can open new
  doors. Communication during this cycle 
serves to establish priorities and
  strengthen financial or business dealings.
There can be ups and downs and   possibly some waste or loss. These
phases are intended to eliminate the   unnecessary. Use discrimination, plan
carefully, and the future is yours.
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: Page of Pentacles. 
The Page holds the pentacle
  lightly, with nonchalance. On the 
outer surface he appears calm while
  within there is great care and concern 
that the right choices are made. The
  mountain of attainment is in the 
background. The flowers in the foreground
  show that the attention now is on 
the immediate future. The Page is
  nevertheless aware of the goal to 
be reached in the distant future.
  ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: 
Third decan Capricorn. This
  is the Virgo decan which brings in 
the eye for detail and the fine
  discriminatory sense that results in 
good planning and organization. You
  have poise, confidence and good taste, 
but you do not believe in gaudy or
  showy displays.
  69/6 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER 
VIBRATION: You have all the
  talents necessary to create a life 
of material success and emotional
  contentment. This is the beginning in 
which some of the vast resources of
  the natural environment are placed 
in your hands. You could mold these
  resources and produce fortune, honor 
and fame. Your work is not done until
  you learn and apply the principle 
of values on the material plane.
  The wheel of success turns, propelled 
by your energy and drive. You are
  attracted to luxury and beauty, and 
you have the proper attitude to attain
  them. To express yourself completely, 
you must be comfortable materially
  and contented mentally. You enjoy 
the divine protection which this
  vibration seems to offer.
Once you have attained success   on the material plane, in the business or
financial world, you share your bounty   generously. Contributions are made
to the arts and other pursuits that   bring pleasure and culture to people. Your
generosity is repaid and your riches increase,   reaffirming the value you
place in the earth s resources.
  As a negative 69 or 6 you become 
infatuated with the pursuit of worldly
  possessions and, once attained, 
hoard them avariciously. Your greed
  corrupts you and assures you material 
comforts but little contentment.
  69/6 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
Honor, fame, money,
  contentment. You are showered with 
honor, fame, money and happiness.
  The fruits of your labor are in your 
hands for your consumption. Your past
  diligent efforts are rewarded.
At home, in your profession and   in your community you are respected
and admired. As your finances increase,   you can afford to be generous; you
should contribute in some measure   to the environment about you.
This is such a good vibration that   the negative aspect still brings material
comforts and financial gains; however,   the inner contentment felt with the
positive side of 69 or 6 is lacking.
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: Ace of Pentacles. 
The Hand of God is holding the
  pentacle as an offering to those who 
will learn to grasp its meaning. It
  seems to suggest that all may partake 
of material goods and reach the
  mountain of attainment after recognition 
that the universal consciousness is
  offered to all who seek it. The lilies 
in the foreground represent purified
  desires. The roses represent the energetic 
drive behind the desires of the 
  flesh. The twin mountains of attainment, 
seen through the arch of roses,
  indicate that the goal is in sight, 
although still in the distant future.
  ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: 
The element earth (Taurus,
  Virgo, Capricorn). Since the aces 
rule the elements, the Ace of earth
  bestows the material wealth and 
security which is so greatly needed and
  desired during the life sojourn.
Fortune, honor and fame are the goals of
  earthly consciousness. Material 
and mental contentment and divine
  protection seem to completely express 
what we most strive to attain. 
  70/7 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER 
VIBRATION: This is considered a
  fortunate vibration because it offers 
business opportunities. You are
  thoughtful, prudent, ambitious and 
diplomatic. You are well liked in your
  business and social life. You believe 
in being fair in all your dealings and
  are probably the only 7 that should 
attempt a partnership. The 0 gives divine
  protection.
Your creativity has commercial   value. You devise ingenious methods to
solve problems and promote products. You   also know how to get the most
out of your money.
  Changing situations will continually 
confront you; at all times, be ready
  to handle these circumstances and 
bring about harmonious solutions. You
  are aware of opposing forces and have 
intuitive understanding of other
  people’s emotions. While skillfully 
controlling your own feelings you bring
  about peaceful and satisfactory 
settlements. You are thrifty and practical.
  Your poise, self-confidence, and 
managerial ability should earn you an
  executive position.
You may do a great deal of   traveling for business, or, at the very least, be
actively involved in communication. Messages and   exchanges are the crux
of your work.
  Your perseverance and endurance 
prevail, and you become successful. Be
  sure to balance your personality by 
allowing equal time for work and play.
  As a negative 70 or 7, you live a life 
of pretense. You cannot handle more
  than one situation at a time, especially 
if they are conflicting. You are
  moody; your life reflects your 
instability by its many ups and downs.
  70/7 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
Partnership, travel, business.
  This is a period of business activity. 
You may be offered a partnership that
  will be financially profitable in the 
long run. If both parties deal with
  fairness and integrity, the union will 
have cosmic protection. Creative ideas
  emerge to offer unique ways to solve 
difficulties or promote products. This
  will enhance your business.
Remain alert to changing   conditions around you. Fluctuating trends need
to be considered. Messages and communications   regarding business
abound. Travel for   business purposes may be necessary.
You can settle disputes or difficulties   amicably because you have insight
into the opposing forces at work.   Keep your imagination under control, and
don’t envision problems where there are   none. If you allow imaginary
troubles to block the positive   flow here, you will lose out financially and
professionally. Your health may then suffer.
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: Two of Pentacles. 
The person pictured is a clever
  juggler. His material is money. The 
horizontal 8, the cosmic lemniscate,
  means infinity. Here it signifies a 
desire for balanced and continuous
  activity rather than struggle and strain 
in attaining ambitions. This is an
  ongoing process. The ships in the 
background on the crests of the waves
  seem to be skillfully piloted, denoting 
prosperous ventures or success in
  commerce. The figure’s outer garment 
is made of leather which shows a
  desire for lasting qualities, dominance 
and good use of the animal and lower
  kingdoms.
ASTROLOGICAL   CORRESPONDENCE: First decan Capricorn. This
decan bestows ambition and diplomacy,   with plenty of perseverance and
endurance. You handle management   positions with ease and will eventually 
work your way into executive positions.   Because you are confident, thrifty
and practical you do well in leadership roles.
  71/8 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER 
VIBRATION: This is a number of
  constructive material accomplishments. 
You are dynamic, determined and
  forceful. With your persistence you 
finish whatever you decide to do. You
  work within the accepted norm, learn 
your trade, and become skilled in
  your craft. You do not allow dogma or 
frivolity to distract you. Although
  disciplined, sensible and aggressive, 
you sometimes attempt the impossible;
  however, you realize your limitations 
and overcome them through sheer
  hard work.
You are dependable,   a rock of Gibraltar, inspiring others with your
stability. You must remember to take   time off for vacations, rest and
recreation, to prevent tension from   building up, which would be the case if
you insist on constantly applying   your energy to work alone. Think what
the word recreation means... to re-create.   You need leisure time to recharge
and tap your creative sources.   Exercising outdoors and communing with
nature have healing effects on you.
  You are affectionate and sympathetic 
and instinctively understand the
  situations which are presented for your 
solution. Your skills, your desire to
  acquire wealth and your willingness to 
progress slowly and steadily to that
  end assure you financial success.
As a negative 71 or 8, you are   indifferent to the development of your skills,
and therefore you accomplish little. You pay   the price however, because it
will all catch up with you.
  71/8 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
Opportunity, advancement,
  gain. Apply yourself diligently and 
develop your skills, and you will obtain
  employment which will ensure your 
financial security. This can only be
  obtained through hard work, so 
use this period for professional
  development.
Be dependable, steady and   reliable. Those in authority will be impressed
by your cleverness, skill and persistence.   Business contracts and job
promotions can result.
  Think big, expand your horizons, allow 
your creative potential a chance
  to show what it can do. You are on 
your way to the top. As you climb, be
  sure to take time to help those along 
the way who may not be operating
  under the powerful influence you are. 
The honor and recognition bestowed
  upon you now will increase 
your bank account as well.
  If you are a negative 71 or 8, you 
allow the opportunity for professional
  development to pass. As a result of your 
laziness, opportunities will be lost
  forever.
TAROT SYMBOLISM:   Three of Pentacles. A laborer is shown working
on a cathedral, symbolizing that one should   work to improve the temple or
the person as a whole. The laborer   earns success and rewards for good and
faithful work. He pays little attention   to the two figures seeking to distract
him either through dogma or frivolity.
  ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: 
Second decan Capricorn. This
  area of the zodiac gives a desire to 
acquire worldly goods. You are willing
  to progress slowly and steadily towards 
that goal. You go about your work
  quietly, but steadily, to attain the 
heights you have set for yourself. Real
  estate, agriculture, or mining would 
be suitable professions for you. 
  72/9 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER 
VIBRATION: You seek satisfaction
  through directing mundane affairs and 
accumulating earthly power. You are
  keenly analytical and see things in 
terms of material advantage. This is one
  of the most practical vibrations for 
handling material matters skillfully and
  constructively. You want to amass a 
fortune, and you have the practical
  ability, ambition and conviction to do so.
The urge here is to build on a large scale   and make every penny count.
You cannot stand loss through   carelessness or wastefulness. You are
generous and merciful but have the   tenacity to hold onto money and to
accumulate the material goods you   desire. You are cautious lest the goal
you have set for yourself be interfered with;   at the same time, your diligent
efforts provide services for others.
  You have a strong character. Your 
standards are high, and you possess an
  innate stability; a gift of balanced 
and logical thinking, through which you
  achieve harmony and happiness. 
Through generosity you overcome your
  fear of poverty. You want your life to 
be one of usefulness and constructive
  accomplishments. Then others look to 
you as a model of practical earthly
  success.
As a negative 72 or 9, you can   be selfish, clinging to your possessions out
of fear that someone may take them from   you. Your miserliness shuts you
into a lonely and desolate existence   where your wealth offers little pleasure
because you spend every moment guarding it.
  72/9 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
Increase, wealth, satisfaction.
  Your attention is turned toward material 
matters. By keenly analyzing your
  financial condition, you can amass 
a fortune. You need to build major
  enterprises with an eye toward every 
detail and a hand on the purse strings.
  Be persevering; let nothing deter you 
from your goal, a goal that is practical
  and useful to others.
If you suffer setbacks or losses,   examine your motives. Material
achievement to satisfy your own   need for security and allay your fear of
poverty can bring failure. If you strive   for success through the sustained
effort and skillful execution of your   talents and organizational abilities, you
will achieve the material success which you   seek. You can then rest upon
your earned laurels.
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: Four of Pentacles. 
The figure is shown very much
  closed up within himself. Every extremity 
is bound by material value; his
  attitude is that of one who is grasping 
and holding on. Skillful handling of
  money is shown by the perfectly balanced 
pentacle on top of the unadorned
  crown on his head. He has little regard 
for personal adornment, as shown by
  the carelessly laced shoes and the 
ragged cloak or shawl thrown about his
  shoulders and waist. The buildings 
behind him show much past material
  accomplishment, yet he is still clinging 
to his material values, wanting to
  accumulate and build more. The lesson 
here is that earthly riches do nothing
  for the inner soul, for the figure looks 
poor in spite of his many possessions.
  ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: 
Third decan Capricorn. This
  area of the zodiac produces a practical, 
ambitious person who is adaptable
  and discriminating. You want your 
life to be one of usefulness and
  constructive accomplishments. You see 
things in terms of how they will fit
  into your financial scheme of advancement.
By learning to share the
  abundance you receive from life, you 
will overcome any fear of poverty.
  73/1 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER 
VIBRATION: The keyword here is
  wisdom—the wisdom to acquire harmony 
within, to grasp the inner light, to
  know that to work for material reward 
alone brings impoverishment, while
  work for the deed itself brings spiritual 
fulfillment. You are well aware that
  you would have to endure the misery 
and burdens of the world if you took
  an avaricious approach to life and 
denied the spiritual light within. You
  have a fine flow of energy, enduring 
stamina and the ability to self-start and
  recharge yourself. Because fear is 
not part of your language, your 
  self-confidence is superb and 
serves as an inspiration to others.
  You are strong-willed, affectionate 
and patient. Your good business sense
  and financial ability will bring you 
blessings. A powerful combination of
  factors operate to give you a 
personality that can sometimes produce
  miracles. You should always use your 
abilities with honesty, idealism and
  integrity. You can become a power 
for good in the world and make it a
  better place in which to live.
If you are a negative 73 or 1,   you are obstinate, self-willed, and slow to
  develop. Your wisdom is attained 
only through physical, material and
  financial hardships in which you must 
choose between material pursuits and
  spiritual riches. When you look 
to the light within, a change in
  consciousness takes place, and the 
material aspects of life flow easily.
  73/1 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
Work, meditation, values. Be
  aware that a preoccupation with the 
purely material side of life can bring
  only disappointment. Work and personal 
endeavors are emphasized here,
  however, you should pursue them with 
a delight in the accomplishment
  itself and not out of a need 
for the material rewards.
  Indulging yourself out of a subconscious 
need for self-importance can
  bring temporary gains that will ultimately 
end in misfortune. The losses that
  can occur during this cycle serve only 
to place your purposes and aims in
  proper perspective. The transient 
nature of the material world should
  encourage you to look for deeper 
values. You should obtain some books on
  philosophy, spend time in meditation 
or sign up for a course in some
  metaphysical discipline which will 
expose you to other ways to deal with
  the circumstances in your life. The 
positive result of this cycle is wisdom.
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: Five of Pentacles. 
The two figures in the picture
  represent physical and mental poverty. 
They serve as a warning to seek the 
  light within, which is indicated by the 
lighted window. The card is meant to
  show that inner riches far outshine any 
material fortunes. The message here
  is: turn to your inner powers for 
guidance and avoid the poverty of
  consciousness to be found if attention 
is on the outer world alone.
  ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: 
First decan Taurus. This area
  of the zodiac is noted for its strong 
will and great endurance. You have good
  business and financial abilities. You 
are fond of ease, good food and the
  luxuries of life. Artistic talent may be 
present in the form of singing or other
  creative abilities.
74/11 AS A PERSONAL   NUMBER VIBRATION: This is a master
number vibration. It requires more than   most number vibrations, but, as a
result, it returns more. The most   important element in this vibration is the
balancing of debts, both present and karmic.   You feel a need and desire to
set things right in your life,   in your community and in the world, as far as
your influence and responsibility can take you.   You are idealistic, with a
firm faith that you can make   your dreams come true. You balance charity
with justice, willingly sharing your material   prosperity with others out of
concern and a desire to balance   the scales. In adjusting your values, you
expiate karmic debts through positive action.
  It is your job to control and maintain 
the economic factors that keep our
  society alive and functioning. Your 
scientific and social inclinations could
  lead you into chemistry, medicine or 
professions connected with food and
  hygiene. Whatever you choose, you 
need to maintain a fine emotional
  balance so that your moods will not 
fluctuate from ecstasy to gloom.
  You are popular with the opposite 
sex because of your grace, charm, 
  self-confidence and independence. You 
have a keen sense of your own worth.
  You can direct group activities and 
inspire confidence because you always
  give a fair deal.
When you keep your many talents   balanced, material success is assured.
Then you must become the philanthropist,   sharing your prosperity and
influence with the needy of   the world. Only in this manner will your
worldly attainment possess any real value.
  If you are a negative 74 or 11, you 
can be unscrupulous in the pursuit of
  financial success and security. You 
need money in proportion to your
  insecurities, and you can become a 
miser, drawing jealousy and resentment
  upon yourself by your actions.
74/11 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION:   Gifts, inheritances, balance,
sharing. This is a master number   vibration. You are given more opportunity
for achievement, and you will reap greater   rewards if you fulfill the extra
demand. This is a karmic period   that requires balancing and sharing. This
implies that there has been an imbalance   prior to this that must be atoned
for and settled. The resulting rewards,   be they material or spiritual, must be
shared with others.
  You will attract others who will be inspired by 
your charm and self-confidence. You can perform   effectively in group activities. You have the
ambition to pursue your goals; great rewards come   from the expression of
your talents.
  Material prosperity is now bestowed 
on you. You may receive gifts from
  an admirer, honor from your peers, 
or perhaps an inheritance. Remember,
  the lesson now is sharing.
A negative use of 74 or 11   brings undesirable friendships and jealousy. You
accrue debts and suffer losses. Your unscrupulous   methods bring only
sorrow.
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: Six of Pentacles. 
The central figure holding the
  scales is the benefactor, as indicated 
by the master number and the area of
  the zodiac’s relationship. The key 
pictures the condition when values are
  learned and the material substances 
of life are shared. The other figures
  depict the opposite condition, when the 
positive side is neglected and the 
  negative condition (objects of charity) 
results from carelessness. You can
  choose to create the positive or 
the negative in your own future.
  ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: 
Second decan Taurus. This
  decan includes the scientific influence 
of the Virgo vibration. You have a
  discriminating and critical mind. You 
could be a career analyst or follow a
  line in the social services, or choose 
chemistry as related to health matters,
  such as hygiene, food or diets. You 
could also be a sympathetic nurse or
  doctor. You could develop methods of 
preserving and handling foods for
  market.
You are popular with the opposite   sex because of your grace, ability and
idealism.
  75/3 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER 
VIBRATION: This vibration brings
  growth if you remain firm and 
independent. Much depends upon your
  persistence and effort. You have potential, 
but attainment calls for hard and
  steady work, which inwardly you know 
is necessary. You know that it takes
  time for your efforts to bear fruit, 
that you must be calm and patient while
  waiting, and you must unceasingly apply 
yourself to the task at hand. Under
  this number you will really 
reap what you have sown.
  Everything from prizefighters to 
editors, from dramatic actors to
  musicians, is covered under this 
number. All, however, had to maintain
  persistent effort to achieve their fame 
and position. You have what it takes
  to become successful: fortitude and discipline.
Your practical nature is coupled with ambition.   You get along well with
your contemporaries. You   could become interested in metaphysics or
philosophy but you would keep everything on   a practical basis. You want to
see concrete proof before you   accept controversial concepts. You are
serious about life, sober and sensible.   With both feet firmly on the ground,
you accomplish your goals.
  Opportunities for more responsible 
positions come to you, and you
  accept the challenges with courage. 
You reach a higher status in life than
  was present at your birth through your 
determination and stamina. With all
  the material success you attain, 
you still realize the need for the
  investigation and development 
of your spiritual side.
  A negative 75 or 3 worries over money 
or lack of it. You are impatient when
  rewards are not immediately forthcoming; 
your anxieties can affect your
  health and cause you to give up easily.
75/3 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Money,   travel, patience, hard
work. During this cycle you   must exercise patience and perseverance. You
have to learn that rewards come only after   hard work. A steady application
of energy toward a positive goal is   necessary. Once these lessons have been
learned, the success you strive for is   yours. Karma has control here because
your success is in direct proportion   to the effort you extend.
You should unite practicality   with ambition. See the situation as it really
is and decide if it has any real value. If it   does, proceed with determination
to see the job accomplished.   Always opt for concrete results. Your
contemporaries are willing to assist you,   so reach out to those on whom you
can depend.
  Positions of authority can open for 
you; meet them with confidence and a
  sense of responsibility. Always keep in 
mind the ethics and morality of your
  actions. New opportunities may 
require travel, so be flexible.
  A negative reaction brings frustration 
over financial matters. There are
  delays, and you may feel impatient and 
restricted. The only solution is a
  calm acceptance of time as the eternal 
healer and a resolution to get down
  to business and work with a positive attitude.
TAROT SYMBOLISM: Seven of Pentacles. The   young man pictured has
attained a considerable   show of success through his diligence. He now
contemplates his work and notices the lack of   fruit on the beautiful full-leaved
vine. He realizes it has borne only   leaves. He has arrived with his
cutting blade to reap the harvest;   now he contemplates what could have
been lacking in his efforts. He is made   to realize that material things are not
enough to feed the soul. The nourishment   of life comes only through
spiritual cultivation.
  ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: 
Third decan Taurus. This area
  of the zodiac has produced many different 
types of individuals, all of whom
  have applied determination and persistence 
to achieve their goals. You have
  an independent and disciplined 
attitude; the Taurean plodding is here
  sparked with ambition. You accept 
challenges and responsible positions and
  go on to even higher achievement.
76/4 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION:   You are endowed
with the ability to be a genius   in your given field. You are accomplished in a
craft or trade, and are a self-made person who   works not for others but for
yourself. You do not look for   support but painstakingly apply yourself to the
task at hand. You take life seriously and are both   honest and modest about
your accomplishments.
  Gain comes through dear thinking 
rather than emotional desire. You use
  logic in making decisions because you 
are accurate and analytical, a good
  planner and organizer, always adhering 
to orderly and steady growth as the
  proven way of advancement. You are 
not a world-beater as far as worldly
  attainment is measured, but you show 
progress by the example of your
  lifestyle and thus quietly teach others 
a sure way to successful achievement.
  What you do accomplish will be of 
great benefit in the long run, both to
  yourself and others.
You should guard against   all work and no play. Overwork can give way
to anxiety and worry. Relax at proper intervals   and take regular vacations to
preserve your health. Allow time   for spiritual awakening; this is also
important for total happiness and gracious   living. You exemplify wisdom
evolving from quiet work.
  If you are a negative 76 or 4 you 
either never develop your skills and
  remain unproductive, or else you develop 
them for evil gains through fraud
  or forgery. This can only mean failure.
76/4 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Training,   employment, skills.
You now have the ability   to develop your skills through some kind of
training, apprenticeship or job opportunity.   You should apply yourself to the
task with concentration and dedication,   resolving to improve your talents
carefully and painstakingly.
  Do not allow emotions to gain the 
upper hand. Proceed with a clear head,
  use logic and organization to 
achieve your goals. Work quietly and
  unassumingly, for bravado is not 
the method of approach here. Your
  accomplishments during this cycle will 
prove valuable in long-range goal
  planning.
Be sure to set aside periods   for rest and relaxation. The tendency here is
to push too hard, work too long and become   overtired. This can bring on
health problems. Balance your   work with play; you are in a training period
which is preparing you for future employment.
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: Eight of Pentacles. 
A workman dressed in plain
  garments, covered with a leather 
apron, is diligently carving a golden
  pentacle, symbol of money. The large 
stack of work piled high shows that
  he has kept at the job faithfully. His 
back is turned to everything else in the
  world; his attention is on his work 
alone. This picture shows honesty,
  attention to fine details and expert 
skills. It may also suggest that all work
  and no play makes a dull life, although 
pleasure and satisfaction may come
  from the acquisition of wealth.
ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE:   First decan Virgo. The
modesty of Virgo shows through   your quiet desire to be an example for 
others. You accomplish your goals by   proceeding carefully and showing
concern that the job is done properly   and orderly. You must watch a
tendency to overwork and become   so embroiled in your profession that you
do not allow time for leisurely pleasures.
  77/5 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER 
VIBRATION: Fruitfulness,
  productivity and physical perfection are 
the keywords for this vibration. You
  have all the comforts of life. Your 
good fortune may have come from thrift
  and industry, or through unexpected 
and mysterious means, such as legacies
  or gifts of appreciation. At any rate, 
you are very comfortable and protected
  which allows you periods for 
reflection and pleasurable pursuit.
  You have the insight to understand 
others, and you draw people to you.
  You are popular and self-confident. 
Emotionally you adjust to
  circumstances. You can be free and 
humorous or extremely cautious and
  serious as the occasion demands. 
Although you are shrewd and prudent,
  there is an imaginative and creative 
side to you in this highly sensitive
  vibration.
  Practicality and thoroughness are 
your foremost traits. Your ambition
  may arouse a desire to rise in station 
through responsibilities in social
  service or public life. Your urge for 
higher achievement prods you onward;
  your tact will aid you in this climb. 
You handle all affairs with skill.
  There is something of the aristocrat 
here, for you have all the material
  needs and physical enjoyments one could 
desire, but you nevertheless feel a
  duty to offer your services to bring 
about higher accomplishments for the
  world.
If you express the negative 77 or 5,   you may lose through extravagance the
possessions you love so dearly. You   thereby forfeit the privilege of
indulging your personal pleasures. Your   family and friends may be among
your losses.
  77/5 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
Good fortune, popularity,
  achievement. From an unexpected source, 
you may receive gifts, money or
  an inheritance. This good fortune can 
evolve in mysterious ways, or it may
  be the result of your prudence and 
industriousness. However it comes, you
  will now have the resources for travel, 
entertainment and other pleasurable
  ventures.
You will attract many friends,   improve your social life and find yourself
the center of attention. You are   bright and charming; however, if
circumstances demand, you can immediately   become serious. Your creative
side is awakened now.
  Enjoy this affluent period, but 
also be practical in all you do.
  Extravagance can cause dissipation 
and loss of money. Look at the goals
  you can achieve now that you have 
been released from financial cares.
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: Nine of Pentacles. 
A woman is shown elegantly
  dressed, with symbols of love, 
wealth and abundance in unmistakable
  evidence. The key depicts luxury and 
ease. The falcon on her hand is a
  symbol of aristocracy, as only those 
who have wealth and leisure can
  indulge in the art of falconry. The 
vines in the background are lush with
  fruit, thus completing this picture 
of ample wealth and security.
  ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: 
Third decan Virgo. This area
  of the zodiac bestows a great awakening 
of ambition, a desire to be more
  persevering and an urge for high 
achievement. This reflects a period in the
  life when further opportunity for 
advancement will be offered. Tact and
  diplomacy are attributes of your 
personality that make you skillful in
  handling your affairs. For those 
who are aggressive there will be
  opportunity to serve and to gain honor 
and recognition. This period often
  brings wealth and all around better conditions.
78/6 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION:   Here is ultimate
attainment of desires on both   the material and spiritual planes. 12 is
considered the number of the perfect   cycle as in the 12 months of the
year and the twelve signs of the   zodiac. The extension of 12, arrived at by
adding together the numbers 1 through 12,   is 78. In this number there is a
high potency indeed.
  You know that you have reached 
attainment by extraordinary effort. You
  used great strength and persistence to 
reach a high material goal. Diligence
  and a well-ordered life round out the 
effort. Emotions are kept in a proper
  place in the midst of your luxury. 
Your high idealism and finely balanced
  nature create a desire to serve. Surrounded 
by family, tradition, wealth and
  comfort, you are now released from the 
vicissitudes of labor and are able to
  pursue philanthropic endeavors 
which will aid humanity.
  You are an extrovert: confident, 
secure in your possessions, ready to
  utilize your mental sagacity to 
establish fine living conditions and a
  semblance of justice in the world 
around you. Your love of art and beauty
  prompts you to support cultural endeavors 
financially. You will not work for
  the sake of work but only to establish 
and add an element of beauty to the
  better side of life. You have the 
financial influence to bring about such
  results. Harmony in the material world 
is a measure of what the balance
  between spirit and matter can produce: 
a fulfilling and comfortable life.
  If you express the negative 78 or 6, 
you can lose more than others because
  you have the potential to gain so 
much more. Since misfortunes and
  burdens can plague you, use 
caution in all your endeavors.
  78/6 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: 
Great fortune, happy family, the
  arts. You can acquire a great fortune 
during this cycle, both materially and
  spiritually. The seeds of ultimate 
fulfillment lie here, a fulfillment achieved
  through personal effort and tremendous 
perseverance. Leisure time,
  pleasure and the satisfaction of 
sensual desires create a feeling of   wellbeing and self-confidence. You should 
maintain a level head in the midst of
  this opulence and set your sights on 
cultural achievements which can bring
  an uplift to the soul. Pursue creative 
work now, and support the world of
  beauty and art.
A happy family life can be   established here. Family lineage and prestige
gain significance, and children abound.
  The idealistic structures you build 
under this vibration will have lasting
  and profound effects upon those who 
come in contact with them. They are
  monuments to the perfect balance 
between the material and spiritual.
  Do not allow yourself to degenerate 
into a state of idleness and
  dissipation because of the luxury 
bestowed on you now. The material life is
  only temporary; eventually 
one has to confront the soul.
  TAROT SYMBOLISM: Ten of Pentacles. 
This scene depicts both plain
  and intricate structural designs. 
There are also shown three phases of
  humanity which stand for three states 
of consciousness. The man, woman
  and child are symbolic of 
conscious mind, subconscious mind,   and superconscious mind. Off to the side 
is the Ancient, observing and knowing the
  future of those he sees through the 
arch. The two gray dogs denote the
  development of the animal kingdom. 
(Gray is the result of mixing black and
  white; this shows balance.) Notice the 
balance scales built solidly on the
  arch, above the Ancient’s head. This 
implies that balance is won and the
  scales can no longer be tipped. The 
pentacles are arranged in the pattern of
  the Tree of Life design, showing that 
the greatest attainment comes from
  achieving balance while on the earth 
plane. This is a picture of success and
  fulfillment in every way.
ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE:   Third decan Virgo. Financial
prospects are good in this area of   the zodiac if combined with the ability to
use this influence properly. You have a   sense of purpose without being too
obstinate and serious. This comes   from a combination of Saturn, Venus and
Mercury. These qualities bring pleasure,   art and practicality together; this
results in service and sympathy in whatever   affairs you meet during your
lifetime.
  End of Main Book.
APPENDIX. SYNTHESIS   OF NUMEROLOGY, ASTROLOGY AND THE TAROT.
NUMEROLOGY, ASTROLOGY AND THE TAROT are different
  ways of exploring the cycles of life 
experience. In this Appendix, the
  material presented in Part 2 of this 
book is summarized in table and chart
  form so that you can more easily 
see how each of these three ancient
  systems relates to the others.
As you know, the 78 keys of the   Tarot are divided into 2 groups: 
the Major Arcana and the Minor   Arcana. The Major Arcana
correspond to the numbers 0   to 22. These numbers are: the God-powered 0,
the base digits 1 to 9 and the first cycle of   double-digit numbers up to the
second master number, 22. These   numbers and their corresponding Tarot
keys represent archetypal life patterns   and are linked astrologically with the
signs of the zodiac and the planets.   This information is contained in Table 1.
In Tables 2 to 5, we present the information   contained in Chapters 2 to 5
of Part 2, which deal with the   numbers 23 to 78, the Minor Arcana and the
yearly astrological cycle. To clarify the   relationship of these numbers to the
Minor Arcana and the astrological cycle   we have included Figure 7, which
presents the information of   Tables 2 to 5 in wheel form.
In astrology we speak of Aries (fire),   Cancer (water), Libra (air) and
Capricorn (earth) as the cardinal   signs. The cardinal signs govern the
seasons and mark the equinoxes and   solstices. For example, the astrological
year begins with the Vernal Equinox;   this occurs when the Sun enters the
sign Aries, and marks the beginning of spring.
  In Figure 7 you will see that the 
king, queen and page of each suit
  correspond to the cardinal sign which 
governs the same element. The King
  of Wands (cardinal, fire) corresponds 
to Aries (cardinal, fire).
  You will also note in the tables and 
in Figure 7 that in the cardinal signs
  the kings, queens and pages of each 
suit are assigned the same astrological
  correspondence as the twos, threes and 
fours of the same suit. For example,
  in Table 3 and in Figure 7, the King 
of Cups (37 or 1) and the 2 of Cups
  (42 or 6) both correspond to the 1st decan 
of Cancer (0 degrees to 10 degrees Cancer). 
  Here, the King acts in a role of royal 
protector ship, overshadowing the Two,
  which is at an earlier point in the 
cycle. Each card represents different
  manifestations of the same astrological energy.
There are two other important cards in each suit:   the knights and the aces.
Each knight is pictured on horseback,   representing movement and energy,
and because of this symbolism the   knights have come to represent entire
seasons. Thus the Knight of Wands governs   the spring, carrying the initial
burst of Aries energy through the   spring months of Aries, Taurus and
Gemini, until the Sun reaches 0 degrees   Cancer and the Knight of Cups begins his
journey through the summer season.
  Just as each knight rules an entire 
season, each ace rules an entire
  element. The power inherent in the ace 
corresponds to all the manifestations
  of an element. Thus, the Ace of Swords 
corresponds to the entire element of
  air and rules the air signs 
Libra, Aquarius and Gemini.