How many times do you need to shuffle a deck of cards to make them truly random? How much uranium does it take to build a nuclear bomb? How can you predict the next word in a sentence? And how does Google know which page you're actually searching for? Well, the reason we know the answer to all of these questions is because of a strange math feud in Russia that took place over a hundred years ago. In 1905, socialist groups all across Russia rose up against Thesar, the ruler of the empire. They demanded a complete political reform or failing that that he step down from power entirely. This divided the nation into two. So on one side you got the Tsarists, right? They wanted to defend the status quo and keep the tsar in power. But then on the other side you had the socialists who wanted this complete political reform. And this division was so bad that it crept into every part of society to the point where even mathematicians started picking sides. On the side of the zar was Pavl Necrosov unofficially called the zsar of probability. Necrasov was a deeply religious and powerful man and he used his status to argue that math could be used to explain free will and the will of God. His intellectual nemesis on the socialist side was Andre Marov, also known as Andre the Furious. Marov was an atheist and he had no patience for people who were being unrigorous, something he considered Necrosoft to be because in his eyes, math had nothing to do with free will or religion. So he publicly criticized Necrosoft's work, listing it among the abuses of mathematics. Their feud centered on the main idea people had used to do probability for the last 200 years. And we can illustrate this with a simple coin flip. When I flip the coin 10 times, I get six times heads and four times tails, which is obviously not the 50/50 you'd expect. But if I keep flipping the coin, then at first the ratio jumps all over the place. But after a large number of flips, we see that it slowly settles down and approaches 50/50. And in this case, after 100 flips, we end up on 51 heads and 49 tails, which is almost exactly what you would expect. This behavior that the average outcome gets closer and closer to the expected value as you run more and more independent trials is known as the law of large numbers. It was first proven by Jacob Bernoli in 1713, and it was the key concept at the heart of probability theory right up until Marov Necrosov. But Berni only proved that it worked for independent events like a fair coin flip or when you ask people to guess how much they think an item is worth where one event doesn't influence the others. But now imagine that instead of asking each person to submit their guess individually, you ask people to shout out their answer in public. Well, in this case, the first person might think it's an extraordinarily valuable item and say it's worth around $2,000. But now all the other people in the room are influenced by this value and so their guesses have become dependent. And now the average doesn't converge to the true value but instead it clusters around a higher amount. And so for 200 years probability had relied on this key assumption that you need independence to observe the law of large numbers. And this was the idea that sparked Necrosov and Marov's feud. See, Necrosov agreed with Bernoli that you need independence to get the law of large numbers. But he took it one step further. He said, "If you see the law of large numbers, you can infer that the underlying events must be independent." Take this table of Belgian marriages from 1841 to 1845. Now, you see that every year the average is about 29,000. And so, it seems like the values converge and therefore that they follow the law of large numbers. And when Microsoft looked at other social statistics like crime rates and birth rates, he noticed a similar pattern. But now think about where all this data is coming from. It's coming from decisions to get married, decisions to commit crimes, and decisions to have babies, at least for the most part. So Necrosoft reasoned that because these statistics follow the law of large numbers, the decisions causing them must be independent. In other words, he argued that they must be acts of free will. So to him, free will wasn't just something philosophical. It was something you could measure. It was scientific. But to Marov, Necrosov was delusional. He thought it was absurd to link mathematical independence to free will. So Marov set out to prove that dependent events could also follow the law of large numbers and that you can still do probability with dependent events. To do this, he needed something where one event clearly depended on what came before. And he got the idea that this is what happens in text. Whether your next letter is a consonant or a vow depends heavily on what the current letter is. So to test this, Marov turned to a poem at the heart of Russian literature. Eugene Anigan by Alexander Pushkin. He took the first 20,000 letters of the poem, stripped out all punctuation and spaces, and pushed them together into one long string of characters. He counted the letters and found that 43% were vowels and 57% were consonants. Then Marov broke the string into overlapping pairs. That gave him four possible combinations. Vow, vowel, consonant, consonant, vow, consonant, or consonant vowel. Now if the letters were independent the probability of a vow vow pair would just be the probability of a vow twice which is about.18 or an 18% chance. But when Marov actually counted he found valval pairs only show up 6% of the time way less than if they were independent. And when he checked the other pairs he found that all actual values differed greatly from what the independent case would predict. So Marov had shown that the letters were dependent. And to beat Necrosov, all he needed to do now was show that these letters still follow the law of large numbers. So he created a prediction machine of sorts. He started by drawing two circles, one for a vowel and one for a consonant. These were his states. Now, say you're at a vowel, then the next letter could either be a vowel or a consonant. So he drew two arrows to represent these transitions. But what are these transition probabilities? Well, Marov knew that if you pick a random starting point, there is a 43% chance that it'll be a vowel. He also knew that val pairs occur about 6% of the time. So to find the probability of going from a vowel to another vowel, he divided 06 by43 to find a transition probability of about 13%. And since there is a 100% chance that another letter comes next, all the arrows going from the same state need to add up to one. So the chance of going to a consonant is 1 minus.13 or 87%. He repeated this process for the consonants to complete his predictive machine. So let's see how it works. We'll start at a vowel. Next, we generate a random number between 0 and 1. If it's below.13, we get another vowel. If it's above, we get a consonant. We got 78, so we get a consonant. Then we generate another number and check if it's above or below 67.21, so we get a vowel. Now, we can keep doing this and keep track of the ratio of vowels to consonants. At first, the ratio jumps all over the place, but after a while, it converges to a steady value. 43% vowels and 57% consonants. The exact split Marov had counted by hand. So Marov had built a dependent system, a literal chain of events.