And he showed that it still followed the law of large numbers, which meant that observing convergence in social statistics didn't prove that the underlying decisions were independent. In other words, those statistics don't prove free will at all. Marov had shattered Necrosov's argument and he knew it. So he ended his paper with one final dig at his rival. Thus free will is not necessary to do probability. In fact independence isn't even necessary to do probability with this marov chain as it came to be known. He found a way to do probability with dependent events. This should have been a huge breakthrough because in the real world almost everything is dependent on something else. I mean, the weather tomorrow depends on the conditions today. How a disease spreads depends on who's infected right now. And the behavior of particles depends on the behavior of particles around them. Many of these processes could be modeled using Marov chains. Do people think it was like a mic drop moment like oh Necrosov is out like Marov's a man or people didn't really notice or it was obscure or I I feel like people didn't really notice like it wasn't a really big thing and Mark of himself seemingly didn't care much about how it might be applied to practical events. He wrote I am concerned only with questions of pure analysis. I refer to the question of the applicability with indifference. Little did he know that this new form of probability theory would soon play a major role in one of the most important developments of the 20th century. On the morning of the 16th of July 1945, the United States detonated the gadgets, the world's first nuclear bomb. The 6 kg plutonium bomb created an explosion that was equivalent to nearly 25,000 tons of TNT. This was the culmination of the top secret Manhattan project. A three-yearong effort by some of the smartest people alive, including people like J. Robert Oppenheimer, John Vonoyman, and a littleknown mathematician named Stanislav Ulam. Even after the war ended, Ulam continued trying to figure out how neutrons behave inside a nuclear bomb. Now, a nuclear bomb works something like this. Say you have a core of uranium 235. Then when a neutron hits a U235 nucleus, the nucleus splits, releasing energy and crucially two or three more neutrons. If on average those new neutrons go on to hit and split more than one other U235 nucleus, you get a runaway chain reaction. So you have a nuclear bomb, but uranium 235, the fizzile fuel needed for the bombs, was really hard to get. So one of the key questions was just how much of it do you need to build a bomb? And this is why Ulam wanted to understand how the neutrons behave. But then in January of 1946, everything came to a halt. Ulam was struck by a sudden and severe case of encphilitis, an inflammation of the brain that nearly killed him. His recovery was long and slow with Ulam spending most of his time in bed. To pass the time, he played a simple card game, solitire. But as he played countless games, winning some, losing others, one question kept nagging at him. What are the chances that a randomly shoveled game of solitaire could be won? It was a deceivingly difficult problem to solve. Ulan played with all 52 cards where each arrangement created a unique game. So the total number of possible games was 52 factorial or about 8 * 10^ the 67. So solving this analytically was hopeless. But then Ulam had a flash of insight. What if I just play hundreds of games and count how many could be won? that would give him some sort of statistical approximation of the answer. Back at Los Alamos, the remaining scientists grappled with much harder problems than solitire, like figuring out how neutrons behave inside a nuclear core. In a nuclear core, there are trillions and trillions of neutrons or interacting with their surroundings. So, the number of possible outcomes is immense, and computing it directly seemed impossible. But when Ulam returned to work, he had a sudden revelation. What if we could simulate these systems by generating lots of random outcomes like I did with Solitaire? He shared this idea with Vonoyman who immediately recognized its power but also spotted a key problem. See, in solitaire, each game is independent. How the cards are dealt in one game have no effect on the next. But neutrons aren't like that. A neutron's behavior depends on where it is and what it has done before. So you couldn't just sample random outcomes like in solitaire. Instead you needed to model a whole chain of events where each step influenced the next. What Venoyman realized is that you needed a mark of chain. So they made one and a much simplified version of it works something like this. Now the starting state is just a neutron traveling through the core and from there three things can happen. It can scatter off an atom and keep traveling. So that gives you an arrow going back to itself. It can leave the system or get absorbed by a non-visile material in which case it no longer takes part in the chain reaction and so it ends its mark of chain. Or it can strike another uranium 235 atom triggering a fision event and releasing two or three more neutrons that then start their own chains. But in this chain, the transition probabilities aren't fixed. They depend on things like the neutron's position, velocity, and energy, as well as the overall configuration and mass of uranium. So, a fastmoving neutron might have a 30% chance to scatter, 50% chance to be absorbed or leave, and a 20% chance to cause fishision. But a slower moving neutron would have different probabilities. Next, they ran this chain on the world's first electronic computer, the ENIAC. The computer started by randomly generating a neutron starting conditions and stepped through the chain to keep track of how many neutrons were produced on average per run known as the multiplication factor K. So if on average one neutron produces another two neutrons then K is equal to two and if on average every two neutrons produce three neutrons then K is equal to 3 over2 and so on. Then after stepping through the full chain for a specified number of steps, we collect the average K value and record that number in a histogram. This process was then repeated hundreds of times and the results tell it up, giving you a statistical distribution of the outcome. If you find that in most cases K is less than one, the reaction dies down. If it's equal to one, there's a self- sustaining chain reaction, but it doesn't grow. And if K is larger than one, the reaction grows exponentially and you've got a bomb with it. Vonoyman and Ulam had a statistical way to figure out how many neutrons were produced without having to do any exact calculations. In other words, they could approximate differential equations that were too hard to solve analytically. All that was needed was a name for the new method. Now, Ulam's uncle was a gambler, and the random sampling and high stakes reminded Ulam of the Monte Carlo Casino in Monaco, and the name stuck. The Monte Carlo method was born. The method was so successful that it didn't stay secret for long. By the end of 1948, scientists at another lab, Argon in Chicago, used it to study nuclear reactor designs, and from there, the idea spread quickly. Ulam later remarked, "It is still an unending source of surprise for me to see how a few scribbles on a blackboard could change the course of human affairs, and it wouldn't be the last time a Markov chain-based method changed the course of human affairs. In 1993, the internet was open to the public and soon it exploded. By the mid1 1990s, thousands of new pages appeared every day