>> Googling is like oxygen to teenagers. And today, Alphabet, which is Google's parent company, is worth around $2 trillion. >> When Google makes even the slightest change in its algorithms, it can have huge effects. Google Google. >> They're on fire. And the reason why they're on fire is because they're focused. And they're more focused than Yahoo who does search. They're more focused than Microsoft who does search with Bing. Yahoo has lots of traffic. They always have. They have some really great properties, but I don't think Yahoo is the go-to place, you know. And at the heart of this trillion dollar algorithm is a mark of chain which only looks at the current state to predict what's going to happen next. But in the 1940s, Claude Shannon, the father of information theory, started asking a different question. He went back to Marov's original idea of predicting text, but instead of just using vowels and consonants, he focused on individual letters. And he wondered, what if instead of looking at only the last letter as a predictor, I look at the last two? Well, with that, he got text that looked like this. Now it doesn't make much sense but there are some recognizable words like way of off and the but Shannon was convinced he could do better. So next instead of looking at letters he wondered what if I use entire words as predictors that gave him sentences like this. The head and in frontal attack on an English writer that the character of this point is therefore another method for the letters that the time of whoever told the problem for an unexpected. Now, clearly this doesn't make any sense, but Shannon did notice that sequences of four words or so generally did make sense. For instance, attack on an English writer kind of make sense. So, Shannon learned that you can make better and better predictions about what the next word is going to be by taking into account more and more of the previous words. It's kind of like what Gmail does when it predicts what you're going to type next. And this is no coincidence. The algorithms that make these predictions are based on mark of chains. >> They're not necessarily using letters, you know, they they they use what they call tokens, some of which are letters, some of which are words, marks of punctuation, whatever. So, it's a it's a bigger set than just the alphabet. The game is simply we have this string of tokens that you know might be 30 long and we're asking what are the odds that the next token is this or this or this. But today's large language models don't treat all those tokens equally because unlike simple markoff chains they also use something called attention which tells the model what to pay attention to. So in the phrase the structure of the cell, the model can use previous context like blood and mitochondria to know the cell most likely refers to biology rather than a prison cell and it uses that to tune its prediction. But as large language models become more widespread, one concern is that the text they produce ends up on the internet and that becomes training data for future models. >> When you start doing that, the real the game is very soon over. You come in this case to a very dull stable state. It just says the same thing over and over and over again forever. The language models are vulnerable to this process. >> And any system like this where we have a feedback loop will become hard to model using markoff chains. Take global warming for instance. As we increase the amount of carbon dioxide in the air, the average temperature of the earth increases. But as the temperature increases, the atmosphere can hold more water vapor, which is an incredibly powerful greenhouse gas. And with more water vapor, the temperature increases further, allowing for even more water vapor. So you get this positive feedback loop which makes it hard to predict what's going to happen next. So there are some systems where marov chains don't work. But for many other dependent systems, they offer a way of doing probability. But what's fascinating is that all these systems have extremely long histories. I mean, you could trace back all the letters in a text, trace back all the interactions of what a neutron did, or trace back the weather for weeks. But the beautiful thing Marov and others found is that for many of these systems, you can ignore almost all of that. You can just look at the current state and forget about the rest. That makes these systems memoryless. And it's this memoralist property that makes mark of chain so powerful because it's what allows you to take these extremely complex systems and simplify them a lot to still make meaningful predictions. As one paper put it, problem solving is often a matter of cooking up an appropriate marov chain. >> It's kind of ridiculous to me that this basic fact of mathematics would come out of a fight like that which you know really had nothing to do with it. But all the evidence suggests that it really was this determination to show up the crossoff that led Marov to do the work. >> But there's one question we still haven't answered when playing solitire. How did Ulam know his cards were perfectly shuffled? I mean, how many shuffles does it take to get a completely random arrangement of cards? >> If you have a deck of cards, you need to shuffle it, right? >> Okay. How often if you're shuffling like you know you split it in half and then you do the >> How often do you have to shuffle it to make it completely random? >> Two. >> Two. I'm going with 26. >> Four times. >> Four times. >> I don't know. >> 52 times. >> Okay. Okay. It's not a bad guess. >> Seven. >> It is seven. Really? >> Yeah. So, you can think of card shuffling as a markoff chain where each deck arrangement is a state and then each shuffle is a step. And so for a deck of 52 cards, if you riffle shuffle it seven times, then every arrangement of the deck is about equally likely. So it's basically random. But I can shuffle like that. So for me, what I do is I do it like this. How many times do you think you have to shuffle like this to get it random? What do you think? And perhaps more importantly, how would you go about working it out? Well, that's where today's sponsor, Brilliant, comes in. Brilliant is a learning app that gets you hands-on with problems just like this. Whether it's math, physics, programming, or even AI, Brilliant's interactive lessons and challenges let you play your way to a sharper mind. You can discover how large language models actually work. From basic Markov chains to complex neural networks, or dig into the math behind this shuffling question. It's a fun way to build knowledge and skills that help you solve all kinds of problems. Which brings us back to our shuffle. So, Casper, what actually is the answer? >> It's actually over 2,000. Over crazy, right? >> Yeah. >> So, the next time someone offers to shuffle before a game, make sure they're doing it right. Seven riffles or it doesn't count. But the interesting part isn't just knowing that. It's understanding why and seeing how a simple question can lead you to some surprisingly complex mathematics. And that's what Brilliant is all about. So, to try everything Brilliant has to offer for free for a full 30 days, visit brilliant.org/veritassium. Click that link in the description or scan this handy QR code. And if you sign up, you'll also get 20% off their annual premium subscription. So, I want to thank Brilliant for sponsoring this video. And I want to thank you for watching.