directions, which actually would have simplified some of the last code that we looked at because I don't have to look ahead to figure out what I want to free or what and where I want to insert some value. But that too doesn't fundamentally change the speed. It just makes your code a little easier to write. So in short, with link list, we get dynamism. We can now grow and shrink things without wasting time copying. But we've lost hold of our binary search. And that was very appealing as far back as week zero when we wanted to do something quite quickly. So let's see if we can't make some mashups now. take some arrays, take some link lists, literally mash them together into a sort of Frankenstein data structure and see if we can't get some of the speed of arrays, but the dynamism of linked lists. And so I give you trees. If you think about in your mind's eye what a family tree looks like where you typically have some parents and then some children and some grandchildren and so forth. It's this sort of treelike structure even though by convention it's drawn top down instead of bottom up like trees in the real world. But the top of that family tree uh we're going to call the root of the tree. It just so happens to indeed grow down. But a tree is a very common data structure and it's interesting visav arrays and link lists in that it's the first of our two-dimensional data structures. An array is effectively just a single dimension along from left to right. A link list is essentially the same. Even though in reality it might be up, down, left, and right in memory. It's still just one thing stitched together in a single dimension. A tree adds now a second dimension. And specifically useful for us is what we're going to call binary search trees, which is spoiler going to give us back the ability to use binary search. But we're going to store the data a little more cleverly than in arrays alone. Instead of storing our data in one dimension in a binary search tree, we're going to store in effect in two different dimensions. And that's going to gain us some speed. So here for instance is an array of seven numbers as we might have seen it back in week uh two when we first introduced arrays. Let me draw our attention to the middle element and then to the middle of the middles and then the middles of the middles of the middles just by color coding them slightly differently. If I were to run binary search on these numbers or the lockers that we had on the stage a few weeks back, I would jump to the middle then the middle of the middle and so forth. The catch though is that implementing it as an array, it's not going to be very easy to add new values. Why? Because if I want to add the number eight or nine or 10, I might get lucky and there might be room in memory here, but I might get unlucky. In which case then we got to start jumping through those hoops of maloc or realloclock and all and and copying all of this memory to a new location which is doable. We solved it in code but it's going to be slow for larger data sets. So can we avoid that? Well maybe I deliberately colorcoded things like this because let me propose that instead of storing these seven values in an array, let's store them in a family treel like structure like this where I just kind of exploded them vertically on the y-axis here. So now the middle element, the fours at the top of this tree. The four, the two and the six which were the middle elements after the middle are going to be to the left and right of the four. And then these leaf nodes so to speak. We borrow a lot of vernacular from the world of actual trees. These are leaves in the sense that they themselves have no children. They're at the edge of the data structure are going to be the middles of the middles of the middles. But all of the data is still there. I've just exploded it from one to two dimensions. And let me propose that now that we have this technique of using pointers which we use with CC code but you can depict them pictorially with arrows. Let me propose that we stitch together these seven values in memory using a bunch of pointers whereby now each of these nodes drawn as a single uh square for simplicity is going to have not only an integer associated with it and not just one pointer but per these arrows as many as two arrows associated with it. So our nodes are about to go from data structures with two things, a number and a pointer to three things, a number and two pointers for the left and right child respectively. And I dare say now that we have a two-dimensional tree data structure, consider how you might find a number therein. Suppose I'm searching for the number five. Well, I start at the root of the data structure. And even though our human eyes obviously know where we're going, notice what's important about this binary search tree. If I go to the root of the no of the tree, I see the four. Four is obviously less than five. What does this mean? This means I can divide and conquer the problem right off the bat. I know that five is going to be to the right of this node, which means effectively, if you think in your mind's eye about snipping the branch there, I have just haved the problem essentially like dividing the phone book in half. Why? Because I don't even waste time looking at this subtree, the left child of the four element. Meanwhile, if I go from the root to its right child here, I see the number six. Five, of course, is less than six. So, this is effectively like snipping off that child because I don't need to go further there because I know a smaller element is going to be in this direction. And that's the key property of a binary search tree. It's not just a family tree with numbers all over the place. They follow a certain pattern. every element is going to be greater than its left child and less than its right child assuming you don't have identical values and that property is actually a recursive one to borrow terminology from a couple of weeks back recall that a recursive function is one that calls itself a recursive data structure like the pyramid in Mario is a data structure that can be defined in terms of itself well binary search tree is a recursive property in so far as if it applies to this node it also applies to this node case point two is greater than one but it's also less than three. It's true over here. Six is greater than five but less than seven. And it's technically true of the leaf nodes because the definition is at least not violated there because they don't even have children themselves. So this is a binary search tree because of that pattern. So this then invites the question, well how long does it take us to search for a value in a binary search tree? Well, if the number is five, it's going to take me one two steps. But if there's n elements here, can someone want to generalize that either mathematically or just instinctively? log n. And even if you're not quite sure how the math works out, anytime you take a data set and you have it, have it have it, we're talking about log base 2 of n again. And indeed, that's going to describe the height of this tree. The height of this tree is essentially log base 2 of n because if n is seven, it's going to give me uh essentially two when we round appropriately. If we round up, if we've got eight elements, log base 2 of 8 2 the 3r. So that means three. So 1 2 3. It kind of works out even if I'm doing that a bit quickly. The height of this tree is log base 2 of n aka bigo of login. How long does it take to insert? I think it's going to take login because I can insert over here or over here or over here depending on where the number goes. Uh how long does it take to delete? I'll claim it's going to take about the same. So wow, we're back in business. I've got now the ability to grow and shrink my data structure because if I want to insert the number eight, it's going to go right there. If I want to insert the number like 5.5, I I can see where I would put it. It's going to be easy to add new nodes by just updating the pointers without copying everything in memory like we had to for arrays. But there is a downside here. I got to concede something. What am I what price am I paying? What's the trade-off here to gain that dynamism and that speed? But &gt;&gt; each individual node takes more memory. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I'm literally using three times as much memory now because even though it's not depicted here explicitly, each of these squares represents an integer and a pointer and another pointer. So that's like 16, that's like 20 bytes at this point of memory instead of just four bytes for each of the integers in an array. Nowadays though, space is pretty cheap. We all have very large Dropbox folders, iCloud folders, and the like. So it's not really a big deal to use that many more bytes. Certainly not a big deal for seven numbers, but if it's seven million numbers, maybe this isn't the best data structure to use, even if speed is important. You got to decide ultimately based on your actual use case what matters more. So in short, a binary search tree you can kind of think of as an amalgam of or rather a variant of a linked list except that every node has as many as two pointers instead of one, which is what gives us now this this second dimension. And in fact, this translates pretty nicely to code. In fact, if we consider how we implemented in a linked list a node, recall that it looked like this where you got a number in each node and a pointer to the next element in the linked list. Well, I think for a binary search tree, we can sort of borrow this as inspiration, make a little more room because we need two pointers instead of one. And I'm just going to call the left child the left pointer and the right pointer. But here is the three times as much space give or take because I now have three elements associated. Two pieces of metadata and one piece of data that I actually care about to stitch this thing here together. All right. Well, if this is the data structure there, how could I implement this in code? Well, here's where recursion again comes into play. The fact that a binary search tree is recursive in nature in that what you say about this node about it being greater than the left child and less than the right child can be said of this node and this node and this node and this node. You can leverage that beautifully in code like this. So suppose I'm implementing a search function in C whose purpose in life is just to say yes or no true or false the number you're looking for is in this tree which might be a useful thing to uh check uh in a in an algorithm. Search is going to take two arguments. I propose the number you're searching for and a pointer to the tree. That is the root of the tree initially. So how do you actually traverse this thing in C code? Well, we can pluck off the the easy case first. The base case if the tree itself is null. Like if you hand me nothing, I'll give you your answer right now. False. Like there's no number here if the tree is empty. So that's easy. Otherwise, if the number you're looking for is less than the number in the current node. So tree is what's passed in a pointer to the root. So if you follow the arrow, you can get inside of that value and see its number. If the number you're looking for is less than that, okay, you want to what? Snip off the right tree and dive down the left subree. So you search the trees left child for the same number. Else, if the number you're looking for is greater than that number, you search for the trees right child for that same number. And the fourth and final scenario is what? Well, if the number you're looking for equals the number in the current node, you got it. Return true. And if you're uh recall some of our past design discussions, this is sort of a waste of everyone's time to ask this question explicitly. Let me tighten this up design-wise because there's only four possible scenarios. Either there's nothing there, it's to the left, it's to the right, or you found it. It's right there. So whether or not you agree at this point in your programming career, like there is a beauty to this code that most programmers would claim is here and that it's so relatively elegant whereby you've defined what the function is. You've got this base case which is arguably one of the clunkiest parts. But the fact that you can just check a value here and then traverse the exact same structure but a subset of it by traversing the left subree or the right subree is like a beautiful application of recursion. And it allows you to uh search for this thing no matter where it is in the computer's memory. Questions then on this idea of a binary search tree or this actual code thereof. &gt;&gt; And if you don't ask the question, if the number is not there, &gt;&gt; uh, nope. If the number is not there, we recall. So, if we get all the way to the bottom of the tree such that now I'm at one of those leaf nodes and that's not the number I'm looking for, such that there's no left child left, no right child left, this conditional is going to kick in and I'm going to return false. But if I find it along the way, whether it's at the top of the tree or somewhere in the middle or among the leaves, I will eventually return true. Good question. And to be clear, even though I'm calling this a tree, that's true certainly for the first time I call this function because I'm passing in a pointer to the whole tree structure. But if you think about it, what's the left subree and the right subree? It's just a smaller tree. It's like a baby tree that's attached to this parent node, so to speak. So it's perfectly reasonable to just call the search function with that child because it in turn has a whole subree below it or the right child which has the whole subree below it instead. All right. So I like this direction. We've now kind of improved upon link list. We've gained back some of our performance because we can now find something with big O of log and time. I don't love the fact that I'm using three times as much memory roughly. That feels like kind of a high price to pay just to speed things back up. But let's consider whether or not this thing is actually going to work as the data structure gets bigger and bigger as well. So it looks beautiful here as written and that's deliberate because I drew the picture like this and it's got seven elements in it. But how did we get to seven elements? Let's start from the beginning. Suppose that the tree is initially empty and suppose that a human using get int or some other technique inserts the first element into the list like the number two and the goal is to maintain the binary search tree property which means you got to have it greater than left child less than the right child. So suppose the human using get int or some other technique next gives me the number one no big deal I plop it right there as the left child suppose they give me the number three next no big deal it goes right there I have very deliberately manipulated this story to work out beautifully such that the tree is smaller but it's still a binary search tree and nicely balanced so to speak but what if the user for whatever reason just gives me a more perverse sequence of inputs like the worst case scenario to give me three elements and suppose they give me one first Okay, that's the root. Then they give me two. Okay, that's cool. That's like the right child. But what if they then give me three? Well, to maintain that binary search property, the three has to go over here. Suppose perversely then they didn't give me four, then five, then six. Imagine in your mind's eye where this story is going. What have I accidentally created in memory? Then a link list, which is like bad for all the reasons we discussed before the break because even though we're getting the dynamism, it's devolving into big O of N. So I've kind of manipulated the situation here with their original example with seven seven elements and then three elements by making sure that they were inserted in just the right order. Because unless you are clever about how you build the tree in memory, it could very well devolve from a tree in two dimensions into actually a linked list in one dimension. And now this is just a long and stringy tree that does not violate the binary search tree definition, but it is surely not balanced in this case. Now, as an aside, if you take higher level languages and data structures and algorithms, there's many different alternatives to binary search trees that actually have baked into the algorithms a little bit of rejiggering of the structure so that really as soon as you insert this three, you spend a little bit more time and clean the situation up. And essentially what you do is like pivot the thing around this way so that two becomes the new route and then one hangs off of it and three still hangs off of it. So with each insertion or deletion, you rebalance the tree as needed, which does cost you a bit more time, but it avoids the thing devolving into big O of N again. And we won't do that in code. So this is recoverable, but not if you implement it naively, as I did, at least verbally in this story. All right. Well, can we do better than that? Well, why might we want to? Well, at this point in the story, it certainly could devolve into big O of N, and that's not great. Certainly for large data sets, it's nice that we're back to login. At least if you take on faith that we could kind of rebalance this thing as needed and maintain a logarithmic height for it. But really the holy grail of data structures is to achieve something that is big O of one like constant time whereby no matter how many numbers or names or sweaters are in the data structure it will take just one step or maybe three steps or even 100 steps but a number of steps that is completely independent of how many actual pieces of data are in the data structure. That is to say over time it doesn't get any slower even if you've got tens, hundreds, thousands, millions of elements in there already. So how do we gain something like big O of one constant time the appeal of which is reminiscent of our early picture from week one like this was our early algorithm for finding someone in a phone book or counting students in the room something linear literally straight lines. This was the logarithmic curve which especially as you zoom out starts to get very very appealing time-wise. Something that's constant time looks even prettier. It is a straight line at like the one step mark or the twostep marks whatever the constant number of step marks is. And even though logarithmic will still grow in perpetuity, constant time by definition never changes. And this is what we'd really like. So when you're searching for someone in your phone, you're searching for something on Google, you're asking a question of chatbt, you get an answer like that in constant time independent of how much data is actually in there. Well, let's see how we can do this. To do this, we're going to at least need a new building block, a term of art known as hashing. Hashing sort of formally takes an infinite domain of values and maps it to a finite range of values. So from high school math class, domain is the input, range is the output. So an infinite domain to a finite range is the goal here of hashing. And we might see this actually in the real world when you're playing, you know, games or whatnot or you're cleaning up after a game like here is here are some super jumbo playing cards that we got online. And suppose that you want to just get these into sorted order. Um you could do this very painstakingly. There's 52 cards here. You can kind of lay them all out and start sifting through them and put the two over here and the four over here and the hearts and the clubs and so forth. Or you can start to look at the cards and bucketize them first to take a 52- size problem and maybe uh shrink it down into four 13 byt problem. So here for instance is where uh the first diamond might go, the club here, spade over here, diamond over here. And I can kind of just do this again and again bucketizing literally all of these values so that I've got a very simple heristic that allows me to move the cards into these buckets each of which is going to have a subset of the values and then I've got smaller problems I can deal with. So dot dot dot assume that I bucketize all 52 of these values. Then I've just got four problems remaining. And I dare say it's a little easier then because they're all of the same suit and so I can pretty easily sort it from ace to king or whatnot because those are effectively just numbers at that point. So hashing refers to again taking values from an infinite range. In this case, it it can be finite and it is in this case. But if you were doing it more generally with numbers, you just have to map it to a finite range like 1 2 3 4 finite number of buckets of values at which point then you can solve the problem a little differently or a little more efficiently. So why is this gerine? Well, I would propose that if we want to start organizing our data in memory toward an idealistic goal of achieving constant time, hashing might be one ingredient for the solution there too. And generally, we're going to describe the process by which you decide what input goes to what output is namely what's called a hash function. It's a mathematical function or a function in code that takes as input a card from a deck or maybe a word from a dictionary and outputs a value that represents the bucket into which it should go. So in the case of our contacts app for instance, of course in the guey of it, you have all of your friends and family top to bottom uh alphabetically presumably you might want to ideally find someone quite quickly, ideally in constant time, right? The naive implementation that Apple or Google could implement is just use linear search. Search through all of your contacts top to bottom and eventually you will correctly find the person. But wouldn't it be nice if they instead use an array and then they can use binary search and get you the person in logarithmic time? That's great. But if you have a lot of friends and family in there or a much larger data set, wouldn't it be nice to just jump to the answer in one step instead of even log of nst step? So that's our goal. Can we get close to or actually at constant time? So with a hash function, we essentially have our old friend problem solving here, the inside of which the algorithm is known as a hash function. And for instance, if I'm looking at Mario's number, I might now want to look for Mario, not top to bottom or not divide and conquer, jumping around to the half, the middle of the middle of the middle. Let me just figure out what bucket Mario is in. And in the English alphabet, there's 26 letters of the alphabet, A through Z, either uppercase or lowerase. And suppose that I want to find what bucket Mario is in. Well, much like these cards and the suits thereof, wouldn't it make sense that anyone whose name start with with A goes into the first bucket and maybe the B's go into the second bucket and the dot dot dot Z's go into the last bucket. So, it stands to reason that if I pass in Mario to a hash function implemented in C or some other language, I would like to get back the number 12 because M is the 13th letter of the alphabet, but if we start counting at zero with our buckets, which are essentially an array, then it's index location 12 instead of 13. Similarly, if Luigi is the input, I'd like to get back the number 11. So, my hash function somehow takes as input in this story, a string, and gives me an integer. I claim there's theoretically an infinite number of names in the world in the English language. But there's only going to be 26 possible answers from this hash function 0 through 25. So, that's our infinite domain to our finite range. Instead of four, it's now 26. All right. So what should we do with the computer's memory to leverage the fact that we can very easily bucketize names based on the first letter of someone's name? Well, let me propose that the hash function part of this arcane as it looks is actually pretty straightforward. So if you wanted to translate this idea into C, you can include uh cype.h, which we've used a few times to get it access to like functions like two upper. And this is just to make sure you can be case insensitive. Here's my hash function. It's going to return an int, which is the goal. Takes a string as input. We'll call it name. And what does this function do? Well, it's kind of some clever asymmetric. It first converts to uppercase. The first letter of that person's name. So, if it's in all lowercase, forces it to uppercase. Why? Because I want to subtract no matter what 65 aka the asky value of capital A from this. And I don't want to screw up the math. If I'm doing like a lowercase letter minus a capital, I want capital minus capital is all. So this will return to me a number between 0 and 25 inclusive because if it is a letter a name that starts with a. I'm only looking at the first letter. I'm subtracting off a that gives me zero and I'm going to return zero as a result. Dot dot dot. If it's z, I'm going to return 25 instead. Now there's no error checking in here. If you type in uh non-English symbols, uh it's going to break. So let's just assume for simplicity this is indeed an English name that's coming in. I can refine this a little bit. I'm going to propose moving forward in our final week here of C, there are some added defenses you can put in place when writing code. Like if you know that you're receiving a name as input, that is you're passing something in by reference, there's a danger now per last week, because now the caller of this function, whoever's using this function is telling you where to find Mario and where to find Luigi's name. The problem with that is that you could go to that address and actually change their name in memory. Even if you're not supposed to, you're supposed to just use the name. So you can do something like const which says you should not be able to change this value even though I'm not giving you a copy of it by value. I'm giving you a reference there too. Another refinement here is that a hash function for an array as the goal should return a value that's zero or one or two on up. Never negative. So we can even more protectively say it's not just an int, it's an unsigned int. And we talked briefly about that last week, albeit in the context of chars. These are just like minor improvements that makes your code arguably better designed because you're opening yourself up to fewer possible mistakes or issues. All right, so with that said, let's now assume that we've got this kind of function in uh implemented and we can now use it to decide what bucket to put these people's names into. Well, let's give you what are called hashts, which are sort of the Swiss army knives of data structures. the kind of thing that some computer scientists have been quoted as saying if they were stuck on a desert island with only one data structure, this is probably the one they would want. Why? It's just really generally useful because it allows you quite powerfully to associate keys with values. Which is to say to come full circle today, hashts are often how you would implement at a lower level the thing we began class with talking about dictionaries, collections of key value pairs. That after all is what a phone book is. We call it, you know, names and numbers, but it's keys and values. That's what an actual English dictionary is. The Oxford English dictionary, it's a bunch of words and definitions or keys and values. So useful in general to be able to associate one piece of data with another. Argo hashts. So here's how you might implement in C a hash table. You want it to be of size 26 for instance. So 26 buckets from A to Z, hence the 26. You want this to be an array and that's fine. This is an array of four buckets. I'm going to use an array of 26 buckets because a hasht 2 is going to be an evolution of our linked list mashed together with an array. So a hasht in short is going to be an array with linked lists as we'll soon see. Here's the array. 26 pointers to nodes. So I'm going to give myself an array of pointers that is going to store ultimately a whole bunch of person objects like this. So for instance, here's a char star name, charst star number, as we've discussed in the past, representing a person. These are the pieces of data I might want to store in this data structure. However, let's simplify. Let's not worry about the phone number because we're not going to call anyone today. But for a linked list of persons, I'm going to need to store let's say the person's name, but also a pointer to the next such name, to the next such name, to the next such name. So again, I'm just deleting number as being unnecessary detail. But if we're going to have an array of link lists, this is our new definition of node for this part of class whereby it's not for a tree. It's now for a hash table. And we'll see this in action now. Here is my array of size 26. I drew it vertically, but who cares? These have always been artist renditions thereof. It just fits nicely on the screen this way. This is location zero. This is location 25. So any A names should end up over here. any uh Z name should end up down here and so forth. Let's just generalize this away as letters of the alphabet for clarity. That's where all the names are going to go. So hopefully Mario here, Luigi here, and everyone else. So what are each of these squares? They're just pointers to nodes. Initially, all null, all claim. But as soon as I insert Mario into this so-called hash table, I'm not going to put him literally here. I'm going to create a new node in memory, put Mario there, and then stitch it together. Because if I get another M name, I'm going to stitch it together and together and together again. So for instance, here comes Mario into this data structure. So this is a pointer to a person structure. Here's Luigi. And here's a third character as well, Peach. That's all working out great. Dot dot dot. There's a whole bunch of characters in the Nintendo universe. Here's a lot of them. Unfortunately, especially if you're a fan, there's also other names that do start with M and L and other letters of the alphabet. So, we're poised to have what we're going to call collisions, which is a downside of using a hash function. If you're going from something infinite to something finite, by definition, you're going to have a heck of a lot of potential collisions somehow. Multiple M names, multiple L names, and so forth. So, we've got to mitigate this somehow. Well, if you meet someone in the real world whose name happens to start with M, and you already are friends with Mario, well, you could delete Mario from your phone and put that new person there. But that's kind of dumb. You could clobber the value, that is. Or maybe you put the M friend here. And when that fills up, you put the M friend here. And then when you meet someone else whose name starts with M, you put it here. But then it just devolves into this mess. At which point now there's no rhyme or reason as to who is where. It devolves back into something linear. If you have to search the whole darn thing looking for M friends just because you ran out of space where you want it. So here's the beauty of mashing together an array with a linked list. You hash the name to the intended location like box 12 here. And then you just start stringing them together in a linked list. And hopefully you don't have too many of those collisions, but at least now you don't have to delete or make a mess of the data structure. So here's another bunch of names, three starting with L. Here's a bunch for the other letters of the alphabet. And it's just a linked it's an array now of linked lists. This then is a hash table. So the question to consider now is this better than an array? Is this better than a linked list? Well, I dare say it's better than a linked list because if it were a linked list from A to Z, what would be the running time of searching for anyone? Well, I'll spoil it. Big O of N. Because even if it's alphabetically sorted, you got to start at the beginning and go all the way through the list potentially to find someone like Zelda whose name starts with, of course, Z. But here we have an array of linked lists. So what's really the running time here? It's not quite as bad as n steps because if you assume a uniform distribution of names such that the world of Nintendo maybe has as many M names as L names as A names as B names, you could assume that there's a bunch of chains, a bunch of linked lists here chained together, but they're all roughly the same. So maybe you have n names in your phone book this way, but there these lists are only of size uh they're only 126 of that length because you've got that many names there. So what's the running time? Well, ideally we'd move away from link lists with big O of N and achieve our constant time. But uh we have these collisions to worry about here. Just to be clear, we want to get from big O of N to something constant time, but we're not going to get to constant time if we've got collisions. If we've got three L names and a few B names and a few A names, we can't just jump to that location and find the person we're looking for. So, what's the fundamental goal? Well, I think we want to maybe use a smarter hash function. And here depicted is an excerpt from a bigger hash table that is a much bigger array that assumes that you're not looking at the first letter of everyone's name, but apparently what instead the first three letters of the person's name, which just decreases the probability of collisions because in this model, I dare say there's no one else's name in the Nintendo universe that starts with L I N. So now Link has its own location in memory. And similarly for Luigi, LUI I believe is unique in the Nintendo universe. So we don't have a collision. Unfortunately, while this does seem to eliminate collisions based on this tiny example, what's the trade-off or what's the catch? Yeah, &gt;&gt; use a lot more memory. &gt;&gt; This is a lot more memory. I mean, kind of hinted at the fact that I didn't even fit most of it on the screen anymore. Here's L A. Here's L U. But what about all of the other letters of the alphabet and the other combinations of dot dot dot dot dot dot all possibilities. Moreover, some of these just don't make much sense. At least in English or in the Nintendo world, I don't think there's anyone whose name is going to start with a aaa or a aab or a a or a a d or a and so forth. You we're wasting a huge amount of space to reduce the probability of collision. So that's fine. We might get constant time now, but at what cost? Well, a heck of a lot more memory. And so this is one of the tensions when using a hash table is you want to come up with a good hash function that's maybe a little more sophisticated than the first letter but not so wasteful that you need a crazy number of buckets and therefore a huge amount more memory. So really even with collisions it's not quite as bad as n steps cuz technically if you have k buckets where k is like 26 buckets or four in this case technically if you do assume that the names are uniformly distributed over a through z the English alphabet. Well each of those link lists is going to be hopefully no bigger than n / k. So n / 26. But what do we know about higher order terms when doing big O notation? Big O of N / K. Yes, it's faster but asmmptoically that is theoretically you're still talking about big O of N. So here's the tension though like it's absolutely going to be faster. It will be like 26 times faster than a linked list but it's still just big O of N because it's going to take an amount of time that's still linear in the size of the data set. So we seem to have strayed yet again away from our constant time search. So can we find this holy grail? Well, we kind of can if you let me spend just like a lot more space. There are tries in the world, which could weirdly is short for retrieval, even though we don't say retrival, but a try is a tree made out of arrays, right? So, at some point, computer scientists were just like mashing things together Frankenstein style, like like length lists and arrays, and now we've got uh trees and and arrays. You two can mash something together and come up with your own. Let's look at what a try actually is because it is going to get us that constant time grail. So here is the root of a try. You can think of each node in a try as really being an array of values a through z in the case of an English problem like we've been playing with here. And what you do is you treat this array as being indexed from 0 through 25 or equivalently a through z. And you treat each of those elements as a pointer to another such node in the try. And what you do is implicitly store the names that you're storing in this data structure by going to an appropriate location based on the first letter in their name and then adding a pointer that represents the second letter in their name. Adding a pointer that represents the third letter of their name and so forth. So what do I mean by this? Suppose we want to insert Toad, one of the characters from the Nintendo universe first. If we count up where T is in the alphabet, this uh pointer here will be changed from null to a pointer to a new node that represents the second letter in Toad's name, which is going to be, of course, O. Then to insert to o A, we're going to need another node. A is going to lead me to D. And for p uh depiction sake, I'm going to draw in green, even though this would actually be a boolean or something like that in memory that indicates that Toad's name stops here. So in other words, this try in memory has four nodes. Now each of those nodes is essentially an array of size 26. But the word toad is not actually stored in the data structure explicitly. There's no charar toad, but implicitly because the tinter is non-null, the o pointer is non-null, the a pointer is non-null, and the dp pointer is in fact null at this point is the common technique here. This allows me to to insert other names from Nintendo's universe like Toadette because I can continue from here to go to the E node to the T- node uh to the T- node again and an E node which I'll again mark in green. So you can even have names that are substrings or equivalently superstrings of each other by just having all of these various breadcrumbs along the way where again a non-null pointer here to a non-null to a non-null to a null pointer here indicates that or it can't be null at this point. This is where we have to use a boolean indicates that there is a name in this data structure that ends here and there's another name that ends here. Meanwhile, if there's a third name from the universe like Tom, same idea, but eventually we can start reusing some of these arrays whereby non-null non-null null or there's a boolean flag here that says true, a name ends here. Now we're reusing that same array. So each of the nodes represents the e letter of the word or the name you're trying to store in the data structure. And by playing around with null and non-null and some booleans, you can implicitly store names in this structure. Now, it's way too uh pictorially difficult to depict lots and lots of names in this form. So, just imagine in your mind's eye that there's dozens, hundreds, thousands of names now in this data structure, but just more arrows and more arrays. How do you actually look someone up in this data structure? Well, if you want to ask a question like is Toad in this data structure or is toad in this data structure or anyone else, you can simply start at the root node as we would do for any tree and you hash on the first letter of toad's name which gives you this location and you check is it null? If not, T is implicitly there. So, you follow that pointer here and then you hash the second letter of Toad's name, an O, and check this pointer. And you follow that arrow. Then you check the third you hash on the third letter of Toad's name A and you follow that arrow. Then the fourth letter of Toad's name D and you see ah there's a boolean here represented in green that means Toad is in this data structure. And notice what's subtle here. It doesn't matter if there's three names in this try or three million names in this try. How many steps did it take me to confirm or deny that Toad is in this try? one, two, three, four, which is arguably constant. Even though the names can vary, at some point there's no Nintendo name longer than what, like 10 characters, 20 characters, maybe 30. I mean, there's some reasonable bound that is finite where there's never going to be a name longer than that because Nintendo's never going to come up with a crazy long name for a game. And so, you effectively have constant time for looking up to o a d, Toadette, Tom, Mario, Luigi, Peach, any of the other names we've looked at. So this is to say a try allows you to ask questions like is Toad in this data set or equivalently what is Toad's phone number in this data set because if you assume now that each of these pointers ultimately is not just a bull saying yes or no but maybe it's an actual person structure with a name and a number you can store even uh data like that your key value pairs where your names are your keys and your phone numbers are your values to make this more clear then here is a data structure how we might represent in See each of these nodes. It's not quite technically an just an array. It's an array of size 26. We'll call it children because it represents the children of that node of type struck node star. And then here for instance for simplicity is that person's number. If we reintroduce numbers and want to store in this data structure someone's phone number as well. So using that data structure and that kind of uh code you can implement a try using something as simple as this. Initially your try is just a pointer to a node. one such uh strct. We can of course initialize it to null to make clear that there's no names in here. But each time we allocate a node, we can then add another node, another node, hashing on the first, the second, the third, the fourth, dot dot dot, the last character in the person's name, allocating a node as needed, flipping that boolean to true or false, or adding their phone number as a char star to indicate that we have then found them. And so of all the data structures we've looked at today, big O of one is actually achieved with tries. And yet curiously for problem set five, you're not going to implement tries, you're going to implement hashts, that sort of Swiss Army knife of data structures that like every programmer everywhere knows about. Why? Like why not use tries very often in practice? Perhaps you certainly can, but what's the trade-off perhaps? Yeah, &gt;&gt; take up too much memory. &gt;&gt; It's a huge amount of memory. Things have escalated since the start of class. We add we started with one int. Then we added an int and a pointer and int and two pointers. Now I'm proposing 26 pointers plus a boolean or a data structure called person. I mean it's escalating significantly. And the biggest catch with a try as you might have imagined with toad and toad and Tom on the screen there's a huge amount of wasted memory just as we saw with a hash function potentially but that can be reigned in as you'll explore in the problem set with a try. most of the pointers in those arrays are just null and unused and it just tends to result in you're using way more memory to solve the problem correctly but in a way that tends to slow the computer down and just waste more memory than is useful. That said, just as we started today, there are stacks in the real world. There's cues in the real world. There are even hashts in the real world which you'll indeed implement in code for problem set five. Has anyone here ever had a salad from a restaurant called Sweet Green in Harvard Square? also elsewhere in the US like not one, two, like two of us, three of us. Okay, so not hard to imagine going to such a store, getting in a queue and staring at a shelf like this because what Sweet Green and similar restaurants do when you order for pickup is they hash your salad into a shelf like this. And so literally in Sweet Green might you see some wooden shelves like this. This is the A through E bucket, the F throughJ bucket, the K through N bucket and the uh O through Z bucket whereby if your name like Min happens to be in one of those ranges, they will hash my salad and put it here. But of course, even in the real world, there are some constraints. And what can go wrong with this here hasht system? Someone who's been there maybe what can go wrong? Imagine like the extreme lots of values here. Yeah. So there's no more space, right? So and this has happened to me in the past especially since green before adopting this system. And they used to put the A's here, the B's here, the C's here, the D's here and so forth. And then someone at some point realized that they were very frequently overflowing the A's to the B's and the B's to the C's. The no one was using Q or Z with any frequency. And so they were sort of wasting space and running out of space. So at some point they decided to like literally remove most of the letters of the alphabet, make the buckets bigger and fewer. So now it's very unlikely that you're going to have so many K's through N's that you overflow the shelf. But this is in the real world a data structure like we've seen today. And so therefore among the goals, even as arcane as things seem to be getting with all the pointer notation and dreferencing this and that, really all we're doing in code is implementing realworld solutions that other people have already come up with and translating them to a new domain. And the very last thing you'll do in C this week is indeed implement your very own spell checker whereby we'll give you a very large file of 100,000 plus English words. you'll have to come up with a clever and efficient way to load it up into memory. And we'll give you tools that will actually measure how fast or how slow your code is, how much memory or how little memory your code is so as to actually compare it against not just your own but perhaps others as well. So with that said, we'll end a bit early today. We'll see you next time. All right, this is CS50 and this is already week six wherein we transition away from C to a programming language called Python. And that's not to say that the past several weeks haven't been among the goals of the course. Indeed, in learning C, I very much think that you'll have at the end of this class so much more of a bottom-up understanding of how computers work, of how programming languages work. And in particular, you'll appreciate and understand better how Python and Java and C++ and Swift and so many other languages are actually doing their thing nowadays. But recall that we started with Scratch some weeks ago. When in Scratch, what was nice was that the first program we wrote, hello world, was just all too accessible. All you had to do was interlock two puzzle pieces in order to make the cat in that case say hello world. Well, thereafter, of course, we transitioned to C. And recall that in week one, we asked you to take on faith that you can sort of ignore that first line and a lot of these parentheses and the curly braces and really just focus on the essence of the program, which clearly is still about hello world and printing it, albeit using a different function and a bit new syntax. Today, very excitingly, all of that is truly going to go away and be distilled into a single line of code when you indeed want to have the computer say something like hello world. And this is what we mean by Python being a higher level language. So, humans over the decades learned uh from earlier designs, earlier programming languages, what worked well, what did not. Computers got faster, computers had more memory, and so you were able to start spending more of those resources in order to have the computer do more for you. And so, you don't need to be as pedantic syntactically anymore. you don't need to write as much code anymore and frankly you can just start solving problems of interest to you building products of interest to you so much more readily by choosing the right tool for the job and so in the real world if you continue coding after CS50 like sometimes C will be the right tool for the job sometime Python will be the right tool for the job and sometimes it's going to be a different language altogether that you'll never have studied in school and in fact what's compelling I think about this week six much like when I took the class back in the day is that after CS50 50, you'll have a taste of one, two, maybe a few different programming languages. And that's going to be enough to bootstrap yourself and teach yourself new languages because you're going to start to recognize in the real world similarities with past languages that you've seen, programming paradigms that are still sort of with us. And the syntax, yeah, that's invariably going to change, but that's the stuff that you are going to Google or ask chat GPT or some other AI about down the line. So long as you know enough of it to sort of get real work done, you'll focus mostly ultimately on the ideas and the problems you want to solve and less on the syntax. And so among the goals for this week and this week's problem set and really the rest of the course is to get you more comfortable feeling uncomfortable in front of your keyboard because we're not going to give you and tell you everything you need to know for a language like Python. You're going to turn to the documentation. You're going to turn to the duck and you're going to learn to teach yourself ultimately a new language. So let's actually write our first program and compare and contrast with how we might do that in C. So recall that in C we were in the habit for the first couple of weeks and doing make hello and make this build utility just kind of magically new to look for a file called hello.c C and magically to create a program called hello and then you could run it with dot/hello and then a week or so later we revealed that make is really just automating compilation of your program with the actual compiler clang in this case and passing it command line arguments like - o to get a specific output like the file name hello instead of the default which recall was a.out out passing in the name of the file you want to compile and turning on any libraries that you might want to compile into your program link into your program beyond the standard ones but then you could still run it in exactly the same way starting today when you write Python code and then want to run it you're simply going to run the Python program itself so just as clang is a C compiler uh Python is itself not only a programming language but a program as well and with the Python program which understands the Python programming language. Can you run code that you'll have written in a file called hello.py? And what this program is doing is a little bit different from what clang is doing, but we'll see that difference before long. But first, let me go over to VS Code and let's write our simplest our first of Python programs by doing code hello.py. And then in this file without any includes, any int main voids, I'm simply going to say print quote unquote hello, world close quote. All right. Now I'm not going to do make. I'm instead just going to do Python of hello.py. Cross my fingers as always and voila, my first program in Python. So it's sort of obvious that we got rid of the uh hash include. We got rid of the int main void. No curly braces. Only a couple of parentheses here. But what else is different to your eyes that's a little more subtle here versus C. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So there's no F. So the print function is a little more human friendly. It's print instead of print f where the f did mean formatted, but we'll see that we still have that functionality. &gt;&gt; No need for the line break. &gt;&gt; So no need for the line break, specifically the back slashn. And yet here's my cursor on the next line. So I dare say humans over the years realized we are more commonly wanting a new line than we don't want it. And so they made the default actually give it to you automatically. And there's one more detail. Yeah. &gt;&gt; No semicolon. &gt;&gt; So there's no semicolon. So, I finished my thought at the end of the line, but I didn't need to explicitly terminate it with a semicolon. This is just with one program, all of these salient differences, but I'd argue that we got rid of all of the annoying stuff thus far anyway. So, we can really focus on what this program itself is doing. But what's exciting with Python 2 is just how quickly you can solve certain problems. And this isn't true of just Python. It's really any higher level language than C. In fact, just for fun, let me go ahead and implement Problem set five wherein you're challenged with implementing the fastest spell checker possible. So let me go back here to VS Code. Let's close out hello.py and clear my terminal window. And let me go ahead and do this. Let me first split my terminal by clicking this rectangular icon over here. And that's going to give me two terminal windows now left and right. Because in the first one at left, I'm going to CD into a directory I came with today, which is the staff's solution to problem set 5's spellch checker in C. And on the right hand side here, I'm going to CD into another directory I brought with me today called Python. Inside of which is a translation of problem set 5 into Python. In particular, I've implemented in advance a spell.py file, which is the analog in Python of spellar.c in C. And I've also prepared a dictionary. Py file. Unfortunately, if we open up dictionary.py, you'll see that it's not actually implemented yet. So in dictionary.py, let's implement in Python problem set five and see how long it takes. Well, the first thing I'm going to do is declare a global variable. We'll call it words. And set that equal to the return value of a Python function called set, which essentially gives me a set object, wherein I can store a whole bunch of words without duplicates. Python's going to manage all of that for me. In effect, it's going to implement what I needed to implement myself in problem set 5, a hash table. Now, down here, I'm going to go ahead and define a function called check. Pass in as input a parameter called word because, of course, that's how it was implemented in C. But notice a difference already. In Python, we use a new keyword called defaf to define a function. And we don't have to specify the type of the variable being passed in word in this case. And we also don't have to specify a return type for the function. Now, inside of this check function, it suffices to do this. I'm going to return word. In words, which is effectively a boolean expression asking, is the lowercase version of this word in the set? If so, return true. Otherwise, return false. done with the check function. Now let's go ahead and define another function called load which recall took an argument of the dictionary that you want to load into memory. And let's go ahead now and do this with open dictionary as file which effectively opens the dictionary as in C we used fop in Python we use open and it gives it a variable name of file. Then once that file is open, I'm going to go ahead and update that entire set of words which starts out empty by taking the file, reading the entire contents top to bottom, left to right, and splitting all of the lines therein on the new lines that terminate each of the strings, effectively updating the set with every word in that their dictionary. Then I'm going to assume that it all just worked because there's a lot less effort for me to uh to perform myself in Python. And I'm just going to go ahead and return true capital T in Python. Done. Next, let's go ahead and define that other function from problem set 5 size whose purpose in life was to tell me the size of the dictionary I had loaded. Well, in Python, that's pretty easy. I can just return the length or leen for short of the set in which I've stored all those words. Done. And then lastly, I'm going to go ahead and define an unload function, which recall was responsible for freeing any memory I myself had allocated. I don't seem to have done any of that in Python. In fact, that's managed for me now. So, I'm going to go ahead and simply say return true because there's no work to be done. And that's it. In like 19 lines of code in Python, most of which are blank lines, I claim I have reimplemented problem set 5 in Python. Well, let's take a look now at the difference. I'm going to go ahead and reopen my terminal window, and I'm going to go ahead and maximize it so we can see more output. And now I'm going to go ahead and run Python, which is going to be not only the name of the language, but the name of the program we use today to start running our Python code. And I'm going to run it on spellar.py, which I brought with me today, specifically on the largest of problem set 5's files homes.ext. Enter. And as with problem set 5 itself, we'll see a whole bunch of misspelled words being printed to the screen. Some of which might very well be misspelled. Some of which are just not in the dictionary. Some of which are simply possessives of words that are in the dictionary. But at the very end of this output, I should see not only how many words were found, but the total time involved, which appears to be 1.87 seconds. Not bad, seeing as it only took me like what, a minute or two to write the actual code. But there is going to be a trade-off. We'll see. Even though it took me much less human time and arguably was a lot easier to implement this imp spell checker in Python than I dare say it was for most everyone in C. Let's see what that trade-off might be. over in my lefthand terminal window in which I'm in the C directory which I brought with me as the staff solution in C to problem set 5. Let's go ahead and make that spellch checker. Then let's go ahead and do/speller and run it on the same file uh homes.ext and see how long the C implementation takes. Enter. And we see some of the same output might be slower sometimes just because of the cloud. there. Total time spent in the CPU, not necessarily printing everything to the screen, which might take longer, is only 1.32 seconds versus the 1.87 seconds in Python. Now, while only half a second, that's a decent percentage of the total amount of time spent running the spell checker in each of the windows. And so, that alone seems to be one of the trade-offs. Even though it seems to be much faster and there say easier to implement a problem in Python, there's going to be trade-offs in so far as the code might very well run slower. And as we'll see today, that's in large part because whereas C is of course compiled. That's why I ran make and in turn clang. And then the zeros and ones, the so-called machine code is what you're running. In Python, generally the pro the computer is interpreting your code essentially reading it top to bottom, left to right, much like a human in between two other humans might slowly translate one spoken language to the other if those two people don't in fact speak the same language themselves. So there's a bit of overhead when using Python, but I will say that the Python community has been working on this problem for some time. And so in general, it's not necessarily going to be as significant a trade-off because there are certain tricks we can do. And in fact, underneath the hood, what the Python language can do for you and the specific interpreter you're using is technically semi-secretely compile your code for you into something called bite code and then run that bite code, which is more efficient than actually reinterpreting it again and again. But we'll see more of this over time. For now, let's take a look at maybe two other problems that we might solve, dare say more easily, more quickly than we could have in C for problem set 4. Let me go ahead and shrink down my terminal window here. Close out dictionary.py. close one of my terminal windows and cd back to my main directory. And let's go ahead and open up that bridge bit mapap photograph that we used in problem set four and had to apply a number of Instagram-l like filters there too. Well, now let's go ahead and implement maybe one of those filters, the blur filter, whose purpose in life is just to blur this image. Well, let's see how long this takes. Let me go ahead and open up say uh blur.py, which is now going to be a Python program for blurring images. It's empty initially, but I can pretty much write this quite quickly. Now, let me go ahead and at the top of this file, write the Python keyword from PIL for Python image library. Import a object called image and another one called image filter. In particular, two features of the Python image library that's going to make this so much easier to actually solve. And then let's go ahead and define a variable. We'll call it before representing the before version of this image. And set that equal to image.open open quote unquote bridge.bmp where that of course is the name of the file we want to blur. Then let's go ahead and create a variable called after representing the after version of this same filter and set that equal to before filter open parenthesis image filter.box blur and then just to be a little dramatic I'm going to blur it more so than you needed to in problem set four but we'll see it more visibly now on the screen. Let's do an argument of 10. And then at the very end of this process, let's do after.save and save it in a file called say out.bmp. Done. So in just four lines of code, I claim I've implemented the blur function now in Python of what we did previously in C. Let me open my terminal window. Let me run the Python command this time on blur.py. Cross my fingers as always. And indeed, I've made a mistake. Perhaps even if you've never written Python before, you can see it. And in fact, we'll see a number of these errors. Some intentional, some unintentional. But on line four, what I intended to do was set equal to uh before.filter that variable I created called after. All right, that's all right. Let's go back down to my terminal window, clear it to get rid of all that, and rerun python of blur.py. Cross my fingers even harder this time. Nothing bad seems to be happening indeed. Now, let's go ahead and open up out.bmp. And before we reveal that, let's go back to the original, which is bridge.bmp. BMP. And now dramatically, let's see the blurred version thereof. Voila. Hopefully to your eyes, too. It looks quite a bit blurry. Well, how about one more flourish? Those of you who were feeling more comfortable last week and implemented perhaps uh edges edge detection in C. Well, let's see if we can whip that up quite quickly, too. Let's go ahead and write a file called edges.py using that same bridge.bmp file. And in this file, let's go ahead and do the following. As before, from the Python image library, let's import uh the image feature and the image filter feature. Then, as before, let's create a variable called before. Set it equal to image.open, passing in bridge.bmp. So, so far the same as before. Now, let's create a variable called after. Set it equal to before. Passing in this time image filter.find edges, which is different from box blur. And by definition, it's going to find the image the edges of this image. And then after, as before, let's do after.save of out.bmp and just clobber the version of the blurred file that we just created. All right, that's it. Let's go ahead and open up my terminal window now. Let's go ahead and again run Python, but this time on edges.py. Cross my fingers real hard. So far so good. And that was quite fast. Recall that the bridge.bmp image looked like this. But now when we open up this new and improved version of out.bmp, BMP. Thanks to Python in just four lines of code, we now have all of our edges detected. So, what can we then learn from C itself? Well, C had, of course, functions. And functions were those actions or verbs that simply got work done. And let's go ahead and compare side by side, much like we did with Scratch and C, the ideas that today onward, are still going to be the same. And uh how they translate to Python. So, on the left here, we'll now have our friend Scratch. This, of course, was one of the first puzzle pieces we saw. It's a purple puzzle piece saying say and it was a function in so far as it said the value of its argument which in this case is hello world. Well, we've already seen in Python what this looks like. It looks similar to the version in C, but it's no longer print f. There's no longer a semicolon and there's no longer an explicit new line. So in Python, it's quite simply this. Meanwhile, in Python, there are a whole bunch of libraries as well. Now in C we had simply header files and those header files give you access to the prototypes of that is the signatures of the functions that you want to use from those libraries. Python uses somewhat different vernacular whereby Python has what are called modules and packages and a package is just a collection of modules. But a a module is just a library using Python speak so to speak. So, anytime you hear someone discussing a module or a package in Python, they're just talking about using a library. And that library might come with the language itself just built in as standard or it might be a third-party library that you might download and install yourself much like I did a few weeks back when we installed uh the cowsay program so that I could actually have a cow or other animals on the screen display text. So, in C recall, we had something like this include CS50.h, which was the header file pre-installed for you somewhere. But we will have for at least this week a analog of the CS50 library in C also in Python just to make this transition from C to Python a bit easier. These two though are meant to be training wheels that you can take off and should take off, you know, even within a week or so. It's just meant to smooth that transition and make clear what's the same and what's different. So in the CS50 library for Python, we also have a function called get string whose purpose in life is to get a string. To access it though, you don't use hashincclude cs50.h. That's a C thing. In Python, you would say from CS50 import get string. It's a little more verbose, but it's also a little more precise as to what you want from the library, especially if you don't want the whole thing loaded into memory. So here, for instance, is now a Scratch program that was a little more interesting than just printing out hello world. This was the first program we wrote that actually got some user input. So in fact, let me go back to VS Code and let's see if we can't resurrect this C program real quickly in the form of a new hello.c. So I'm going to run code of hello.c and then in my ter in my uh code tab I'm going to do include cs50.h include standard io.h and then below that I'm going to go ahead and whip up our familiar version of this int main void and then inside the curly braces we'll bring back string even though we now know it's char star. We'll call our variable answer. Set it equal to get string. Ask the user quote unquote what's your name with a space just to move the cursor over. still need my semicolon and C. And then after that, recall back in week one, we did hello, percent s back slashn and then plugged in the variable answer so as to see hello David, hello Kelly or something else. Just to be safe, let me do make hello. All is well so far dot /hello type my name. And this version in C seems to be working. Okay, so in C, these lines of code here translate pretty literally to what we just saw. Although we got the answer variable in Scratch for free. That blue puzzle piece just existed without R having to create it. But it's a decent number of hoops to jump through in order to just get user input and print it out. Well, in Python, this is going to get a little more succinct in that the Python version of this code is now going to look like this. Print f is now print. The semicolons are gone. And what else seems a little bit different? &gt;&gt; I don't need any placeholders. Yeah. So, we don't need the percent s anymore. In fact, I'm curiously using a plus, which if some of you studied Java or some other language, you might have actually seen this before. Even if you've never seen Python before, you've only seen C in CS50, you can probably guess what the plus is doing. Even if you don't know the the technical vocab, what is the plus probably doing here? Yeah. So, it's concatenating or joining together the thing on the left with the thing on the right. And we actually had that vernacular in the world of Scratch. We had the join puzzle piece that joins hello, space and the value inside of answer. A plus in Python can do exactly the same thing. So it's a little more user friendly than having to anticipate, oh, let's put the placeholder here and then come back later and plug in the variable. Humans over time just realize that it's a lot easier to sort of do this in this way than bother with placeholders. Though you can still use placeholders for other purposes. Another subtle difference between the C and Python version of these two lines. More subtle than that. Yeah, I'm back. &gt;&gt; Uh, so the back slashn is again gone for Python. So that sort of happens for free indeed. And one more difference. &gt;&gt; You don't need to declare the type of answer. &gt;&gt; Yeah, we don't need to declare the type of answer. Recall that if we rewind in the C version, you needed to tell the compiler that this is a string. And last week, we could have changed string to char star, but we still had to tell the compiler what data type we're putting into that variable. In Python, we can now get rid of that data type. And Python will just figure it out from context. If get string returns a string, well then obviously the variable should store a string. If a function returns an int, well then obviously the variable should store an int. And the language is just doing more of that decision-making for you just to save you time and save you thought. There's a subtlety here though where we can make this program a little bit different. In fact, let's whip it up first in Python. Let me go back to VS Code here. Clear my terminal and let's go ahead and create a program again called hello.py. That'll open up my previous version thereof. And just so we can see these things side by side, I'm going to drag that tab over to the right of VS Code and let go. And now you can see the C version still on the left and the Python version at the right. What I'm going to do here now in my Python version is change it to be quite like the version in C now at left. So as promised I'm going to do from CS50 import get string. Then below that I'm going to say simply answer equals get string quote unquote what's your name question mark space no semicolon. But then on the next line what I'm whoops but uh parenthesis. Then on the next line, I'm going to do print quote unquote hello, space close quote plus answer. Down here, I'm going to go ahead and run Python if hello.py again. No compilation step. I'm just going to interpret it line by line. What's my name? David. And it seems now to work exactly the same. Now, it turns out in Python there's even more ways to solve problems like this, even trivial problems like this. So here we're using the plus sign, not as addition per se, but as the concatenation operator, the join operation. If you want though you can take advantage of the fact that print in Python can take more than one argument. It can take two or three or four or even zero by simply changing the plus to a comma getting rid of that seemingly superfluous space and just give print two things to print because it turns out per the documentation of print which we'll eventually see it knows that if it takes one two arguments by default separate them for you by a single space and that's something we can override as well. which one is better like h like I don't know like they're sort of equivalent. It's such a trivial difference but it speaks to the flexibility that you'll start to have whereby the language is a little less rigid than C was certainly when it comes to printing strings. So in fact if I go back to VS Code here and I go ahead and change that plus to a comma and get rid of the space inside of the quotes. I can rerun Python of hello.py, type in my name and we see exactly the same result there. But we can take this one step further. Even though it's going to look a little cryptic, this is sort of the more Pythonic way to do things. And that too is actually a term of art to do something Pythonically is to do it the way that most Python programmers would do it. It's not the only way. It's not necessarily the right way, but it's sort of the recommended way in the community. So here we have that latest version where I'm passing two arguments to print. The first is quote unquote hello, and then the second of which is the value of answer. I could similarly write this same program with this crazy syntax. Takes a little getting used to, but it turns out it's actually kind of nice overall. What's obviously different? Well, one, there's these weird curly braces are back. They're not part of the logic of the program. They're literally inside of the double quotes. But you can probably guess how this what this does for me because there's one other crucial difference. What else has changed between before and after? Yeah, there's this weird f which is not part of print f. It's actually inside of the parenthesis and next to the double quotes. And even this one when this came out was a little weird looking to people. But this is how you get this thing to be a formatted string, aka an F string, as opposed to it being just a literal string of text. Now, you can probably guess what it means to put the variable's name inside of the curly braces. It means the value of that variable is going to be substituted right there. Similar in spirit to the percent s in C, but a little more explicit. With the percent S, you had to remember that that percent S corresponds to this variable's value or something like that, which was just annoying if anything else uh if anything. But this time you have a placeholder in curly braces that just says what you want there, that particular value. And what this means more technically is that the answer variable will be interpolated by the interpreter which means its value will be plugged in right there. So let's try this. Let me go back over to VS Code and quite simply on my last line of code here, let's change the input to print to be quote unquote hello, and then curly brace answer then close curly brace close quote. And I've done this. This is intentional, but let's see. Let me go ahead and rerun python if hello.py davv ID. What are we about to see? Hello, answer. So this is a bug, but just to demonstrate like what is going on and what's therefore missing. What what did I forget? Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I didn't declare that this is a so-called fring or format string. The fix for this, weirdly, is just to put an F right there. And now if I rerun Python of hello.py, Pi. Type in my name again. Cross my fingers. Now I see that the variable has indeed been interpolated and its value plugged in where I wanted it. All right. Turns out we can take off one of these training wheels already. I I propose that get string just exists in the library just to smooth the transition, but honestly it's not really doing anything all that interesting. So let's take this first training wheel off. It turns out that Python comes with a function appropriately named input such that if you want to get input from the human via their keyboard, you can just use the input function. So we can already for this program get rid of the CS50 library because input essentially behaves just like the get string function. So if I go back to my Python version here, I can change get uh get string to input. And I can even go and delete this training wheel up there. Rerun Python of hello.pay in my terminal. DAV ID enter and we're still in business as well. So input is generally going to be the way you go about getting input now from the user. All right, let me pause here and see if there's any questions as we try to bridge these two worlds from C to Python. Yeah, &gt;&gt; so in Python, we don't need the main function. And why is that? &gt;&gt; Good question. In Python, why don't we need the main function anymore? because clearly that's been omnipresent in like every program we've written thus far. And here we have it in all of our Python programs thus far absent. It turns out that humans realize it's just so common that you want the file you're editing to be the main part of your program. Like why bother adding the additional syntax of saying int main void or something analogous? It's just easier if you want to write two lines of code to get some work done. Why do you have to waste my time adding all of these this boilerplate code which we've been doing up until now. Now that said, we're going to bring back main in a little bit because it will solve a problem. But generally speaking, what I'm doing here is indeed a program, but people in the real world would also call these scripts where a script is like a lightweight program that pretty much just reads top to bottom, left to right. It might be fairly lightweight. It's really synonymous with writing a program, but this is again one of the appeals of a language like Python. You can just get right in and get out and get the job done. Even Java has moved to this in recent years where you don't have to put everything in a class. Uh public static void main for those familiar. You can just write uh system.out.print line and get some work done. &gt;&gt; Is input only for string? &gt;&gt; Good question. Is input only for a string? Yes. Right now it will get input from the user via their keyboard and you'll get back a string just like get string. And we'll come back to why that's maybe not a a good thing. All right. So what's more might we want to do at this point? Well, let's tease apart some differences now with C. So up until now, every argument we've ever passed