string. So there's no C function called ask. And we deliberately named this function get string just to make super clear what it is you are getting. A string of text in this case. And we've got the parenthesis ready to go indicative of this white oval for user input. If I want to prompt the user with that same phrase, what's your name? Well, I can just put it inside of those parenthesis. But what next do I need to add around my user input? Um, you did the quotation marks. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I need the quotation marks just to make clear that these aren't special individual words. This is a whole phrase that I want to be displayed to the user. So, I'm going to indeed put double quotes around everything. And this is just an aesthetic. I don't in this case want to bother moving the cursor to the next line. Like, I want the user to see the question and I want the cursor to just stay there blinking waiting for their prompt. But I don't want the cursor to be right next to the question mark. So, I'm deliberately just leaving a single white space there just to kind of scooch it over a bit so it looks a little prettier, at least to my eye. Now, we're not done yet because we need to do something with this value. The get string function, as we'll soon see, is going to prompt the user for me to type something in like my name. But where do I want to put that? Well, MIT has the answer put in a variable called answer. And you can't rename that in Scratch. It's just defined as answer. But in C, what I'm going to need to do is something like this. If you want to keep return values around from a function, you literally use an equal sign and then to the left of it, you put the name of the variable into which you want to put that return value. So in mathematics, we would use X, Y, and Z as our variables. Again, in code, as in Scratch, you can name your variables anything you want. By convention, they should usually be lowercase. They should not have spaces therein, similar to file names. But this is a pretty good analog now of what's going on collectively here. But C is a little more precise. It you can't just give the variable a name. You need to tell C or really the compiler what type of value you want to put in this variable. So if it's a string of text, you put string. If it's a number, you're going to put something else. But for now, it's a string. Per the function's name, it's going to give me a string. Now, we're so close to finishing this comparison. There's one detail missing. What's still missing from the code here? &gt;&gt; Yeah. So, we have to finish the thought lastly with a semicolon. So, if you're getting to sort of the point already, like this is one of the reasons why we start with Scratch, you sort of you get the intuition pretty quickly. And even though nothing on the right hand side is particularly hard, there's just all these stupid little details that you have to ingrain in yourself over time. In this case for C, but for many programming languages, we're going to see the similar paradigm. But among the goals of the course too are to show you how ultimately languages have been evolving. And so one of the things we'll see in Python in a few weeks time that some of this syntax actually goes away because over time humans have gotten annoyed at older languages like this. Like why the heck do I have to keep putting a semicolon when it's clear that I'm at the end of the line. So we'll see among languages like Python we can get rid of some of these same features. But for now it's just a matter of remembering what goes where. All right. So, let's go ahead now and take that same idea of converting Scratch to C and actually do something with this code. Let me go back to VS Code here. I'm going to keep my file name the same, but what you'll see on CS50's website is that we'll add version numbers to each of the examples that I'm typing out. So, you can actually see the progression of these programs, even though we're not changing the name. And what I'm going to go ahead and do here, for instance, in hello C this time, is the following. I'm going to go ahead and uh first get rid of the single hello world. I'm going to go up here and include this time cs50.h. So, not one but two header files. And then inside of my curly braces, inside the so-called main function, as we'll soon call it, I'm going to go ahead and do this. Exactly the same line of code as on the screen before, I'm going to get a string prompting the user for what's your name question mark space close quote semicolon. And as an aside, this will will soon see print on the screen what's your name. So that implies that the get string function is actually using print f itself to print out that message. I do not need to use print f to display that message on the screen because I read the documentation for CS50's get string function and I just know that it is using print f for me to achieve that particular goal. Now let me do something intuitive but not quite correct. If I want to print out that answer so that the expression is going to be not hello world but hello David or hello Kelly. Let me go ahead and say answer back slashn to move the cursor down as before. semicolon. So this is not quite right. And even if you've never programmed before, you can perhaps see where this is erroneously going. Let me remake the program because I've changed the source code and I need new machine code. Nothing seems to be wrong aesthetic uh uh logic rather syntactically. But if I do now dot /hello and hit enter, you'll see I'm being prompt. What's your name? So I'm going to go ahead and type in David and then hit enter. But when I do, if you know where this is going, what am I going to see instead? &gt;&gt; Hello answer. And the computer's just doing literally what I told it to do. I said quote unquote print out hello answer. But obviously that's not the goal that I have in mind. So how do I actually work around that? Well, what I really need to do is achieve the equivalent of this thing here, which we did by stacking blocks in Scratch or nesting them, if you will, one inside of the other. So, I want to join the expression hello, space, and that answer. And it turns out in C, you can't do it quite like this. Like, there isn't an analog of the join function, at least that we'll see today. So, we have to do this a little bit differently. We can do it though by maybe telling the computer, we'll go ahead and print out hello, comma, space, and then maybe we can give it like a placeholder to plug in the name once we know the name. Because when I'm writing my code, I have no idea who's going to play this game, me or Kelly or someone else. So, what if we use special syntax to indicate where I want the person's name actually to go? Let me propose that we now do this. instead of printing out hello quote unquote uh hello comma answer quote unquote let's go ahead and start printing out something and I got my parenthesis ready to go and I did my semicolon in advance this time I want to somehow now say hello placeholder and you would only know this by someone having told you or a reference online percent s is the placeholder for a string that you don't know when you're writing the code but when someone else is running the code it will be filled in and substituted for other input. So, hello, percent s is the closest we can get to this. I still need though some other syntax. I still I do need those quotes on the left and the right just to be uh aesthetically pleasing. I'm going to put a back slashn there at the end to move the cursor, but now I've left room in my parenthesis for one more thing. And you can perhaps guess where I'm going with this. Again, even if you've never programmed before, this is telling print f print out h e l o comma space something. What should I probably pass in to these parentheses as a second input so that print f knows what that something is? &gt;&gt; the variable. &gt;&gt; The variable name. So the variable in which I have the user's name and indeed the convention is to put a comma after the quotes and then the name of the variable that has the value you want to be substituted for that placeholder. Now notice there's a collision of syntax and grammar here. The comma inside of the quotes is just an English thing. Hello, comma, so and so. The comma outside of the quotes is meaningful to C because it delineates which is the first input or argument to left and which now is the second. And we haven't seen this before in C. Up until now, we've only been passing one input, but you can pass in two or three or four. Completely depends on what the function is designed to expect. So, let me put this all together now. Let me go back to VS Code. Previously, we were literally printing out answer, but I can change answer to percent s. I can move my cursor outside of those quotes, comma, answer, because that's the name I gave to that variable. I can go back down to my terminal window and clear it just to reduce clutter. Let me do make hello one more time. Seems to work. Dot /hello. Enter. DAV ID. And now David is printed. Okay, questions on any and all of that. &gt;&gt; I was wondering with the header file, where is it pulling from? &gt;&gt; Good question. Where is it pulling these header files from? So, what you are seeing here is a graphical user interface that's somewhere hosted in the cloud at cs50.dev, the URL I mentioned last week, and we're going to tease this apart in just a moment. That software is running on a computer, and that computer's got a hard drive or a solid state drive, like folders of storage. Those files, CS50.h and standard.io.h age and many more are pre-installed on the server to which I have connected and they're stored in a standard place so that the compiler in particular knows where to look for them and those are all things we did in advance for you. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Why is back slashn not create a new like a new line? &gt;&gt; Why does the back slashn not create a new line? So it is back slashn is essentially being printed here which has the effect of pushing the dollar sign to the next line. Otherwise, the dollar sign would stay on that second to last line. Other questions? &gt;&gt; Why is there no backslash on this? &gt;&gt; Good. Uh, why is there no backslash and over here? &gt;&gt; Good question. My choice as the programmer. I just wanted to see the sentence, what's your name? And I wanted the user me to type my name immediately after it like this. But I didn't have to do it that way. I just wanted to show you the difference. &gt;&gt; Gotcha. And then also like just generally when we're like doing the work should we always write the like first four lines. &gt;&gt; Should you always write the first four? Oh these. Yes. For today trust me do this, do this, do this, do this. And next week we'll understand even more what those lines do. However, slight caveat only use cs50.h if you're using one of our functions. Clearly you don't need cs50.h if you're just printing something out as in the first example. Other questions? is dividing the first input and the second input. I understand that the second input is what I type as the user. The first input doesn't really feel like input for me because that's the question that you asked. Can you like explain a little bit why both say input? &gt;&gt; Correct. So to to summarize the question on the right here, this input is effectively provided by the user. This first input though is provided by me. That's the way it is. So uh these are both inputs because they're being provided as inputs to the function. The origins of those inputs though are entirely up to what I'm trying to achieve. The first one I know in advance like I'm the programmer. I know I wanted to say hello, someone. The second input I don't know in advance. So I'm using a place I'm using a variable to store the value that I'm going to get when the get string function is used later on. But they're both inputs even though they're used in different ways. Good question. Any others? No. Okay. So, if we now have that done, well, let's just take a step back into the first question that was just asked about um where are these files? Let's take a look back at actually what it is we're actually using here. So, it turns out even though most of you are using Mac OS or Windows, there's other operating systems out there in the world. Phones have iOS. Uh iPads have iPad OS. Uh Android devices have Android, which is its own operating system. The operating systems in the world are the pieces of software that really just do the most fundamental operations on a device like booting it up, shutting it down, sending something to a printer, displaying something on the screen, managing windows and icons and all of that sort of commodity stuff that is used by other people's software as well. A very popular operating system in the programming world and in the world of servers in the cloud and on the internet at large is called Linux. And it's a descendant of something called Unix um which has been around for quite some time and it's what many programmers most programmers um use depending on their environments in so far as Linux is very highly performant like you can support thousands of millions of users on servers running an operating system like this. It tends not to but it can have a graphical user interface which just means it can operate more quickly because it doesn't need all of these graphics that are really just for humans benefits not necessarily for web browsers and other devices. And Linux in so far as it's usually used or often used as a command line interface comes with a whole bunch of commands that you'll start to use and see over time. Now I've used a bunch of commands already. I've used code which is a VS code thing. I have used make which is for today's purposes our compiler but that's a little white lie that we'll distill next week. Uh and then I've used dot /hello which is a command I essentially invented as soon as I created a program called hello. But there's a bunch of other ones as well. For instance, if I want to list the files in my current folder, I can type ls and hit enter for short. If I want to uh create a new folder, otherwise known as a directory, I can use mkdir to make a directory. If I want to remove a directory, I can use rm directory. If I want to remove a file, I can use rm. If I want to rename a file, I can use mv for move. If I want to copy a file, cp. If I want to change directories, change into a folder, I can use cd. Now, these two just take a little bit of time and practice to memorize them, and they're all very tur in so far as the whole point of a command line interface is to let people navigate things quickly. So, for instance, even though this will be a bit of a whirlwind, let me go back into VS Code and let me propose that we play around with just a few of these commands so that you've seen me doing it, but generally speaking, in CS50's problem sets, we will tell you step by step what commands to type so that you can achieve the same results. And then later in the term we'll stop bothering reminding you pedantically how to do uh this and that because it should come more naturally eventually. But for instance let me go ahead and do this. Let me go ahead and reopen my file explorer at left. Yours will look a little different. You'll have a different number as your unique ID but generally you'll see whatever files and or folders you've created already. The first thing I created today was called hello.c. And then by using make I created a second file I claimed called hello. So the reason hello works is because there is in fact a program called hello in my current folder ergo the dot that was created when I compiled my source code into machine code. Now suppose for the sake of discussion that this is going to get messy quickly because the more programs we create in class and for problem sets, you're just going to have a hot mess of files inside of this one main folder. Well, let's create subfolders like you might be inclined to do on your Mac or PC or Google Drive or whatnot. Well, we can do this in a bunch of ways. I could rightclick or controll-click on my file explorer, and I'll see a somewhat familiar uh contextual menu, and I can literally choose new folder, or I can rename things, or I can move things around by dragging and dropping them. But for today, let's focus more on the CLI, the command line interface. And again, commands like this. So, let me go back into VS Code, and let me propose that we do a few things just because as a tour. First, let me delete the machine code. I I've I'm done with this example. I don't really want to keep these bits around unnecessarily. I'm going to delete hello. Not hello.c, but hello. The compiled program. When I type that, I'll be cautioned. Remove the regular file, whatever that means, called hello. Here, I'm being prompted for a yes no response. Y suffices. So, I'm going to hit Y, enter, and watch what happens at top left. As soon as I use my terminal window and this command to remove that file, it disappears. I could have rightclicked on it or control-cllicked on it, but this command line interface achieves the same thing. Now suppose that for problem set one in future problem sets, I want to keep like every program I write in its own folder just to keep myself organized, especially as the term progresses. Well, let me create a new folder called hello itself. So I don't want to create a program called hello. I want to call create a folder called hello. Well, one way I can do this per this here cheat sheet is to make a directory which just means folder. So, mkdir hello. Enter. And you'll see at top left now I indeed have a folder. And it even has an obvious folder icon next to it. Now I could cut some corners. I could click and drag on hello.c and just drop it into hello. But again, let's stick with the command line interface. Let me go ahead now and move mv for short. Hello. C into hello. So this is the first command where I'm passing in not one word after the command like code hello. see or make hello. Now I'm typing two words after the command because the way the move command is designed is to expect the origin as the first word and the destination as the second so to speak whereby if I want to rename hello C sorry if I want to move hello.c into the hello folder I should type like this. Now, you can, just so you know, include a trailing slash, a forward slash at the end of the destination just to make clear that you want to put this into a folder and not just rename hello.c to hello. But because the hello folder already exists, Linux knows what it's doing. And it's just going to assume that when you do that, watch what happens at top left. Hello. C seems to have disappeared. But if I click this little triangle, ah, there it is. It's now inside of that folder. But now I've created kind of a predicament for myself. Let me clear my terminal window. And now let me type ls. And when I type ls for list, you'll see only a folder called hello. And it's colorcoded just to call it out to your eyes. And there's a trailing slash just to make obvious that it's a folder. That's all done automatically for you by Linux, the operating system. But wait a minute, where did my hello program go? Like where is hello. C. Well, it's in that folder. So I need to change into that folder or directory. And here per the cheat sheet, we have cd for change directory. So, I can do cd space hello with or without the slash and hit enter. And now you'll see this. And it's admittedly a little cryptic, but my prompt has now changed to still be a dollar sign, but before it is just a constant reminder of where what folder I am in. We uh adopted this as a convention. Many systems do the same thing, though the formatting might be a little different. This is just to help you remember where the heck you are without having to type some other command to ask the operating system what folder you are in. So now that I'm here, if I type ls and hit enter, what should I see? Just hello. C because that's the only thing in that there folder. So now let's do maybe one other thing. Let's do make hello inside of this folder. That is okay. And notice at top left what just happened. Now I've got both files back. All right. Suppose I want to get rid of one. Well, I can do rm hello again. I can type y for yes to confirm the deletion. And now I'm back to where I just was. Now suppose I want to do yet other things. Suppose that I'm not really proud of this version of hello. C. Let me keep it but rename it. Well, I can say uh how about MV hello C to old C. I just want to rename the file. So MV can be used not only to physically move a file from one place to another. If you use it onto file names, it will just rename the file for you. So there's no rename command that you need use instead. Uh but you know what? Nope. I regret that. This program was fine. Let's rename it back. So, let's move old C back to hello. C. And watch it. Top left. It just renames the file again. Um, let me go ahead and make a backup though. So, let me copy with CP hello. C into a file called like backup.c just in case I screw this up. I want to have a spare around. Now, you see at top left, I've got both files. If I now type ls, you'll see both files. So, what's happening in the guey is the exact same thing is happening in the CLI. But, you know what? This was just for demonstration sake. I don't need any of this. So, let me remove the backup. say yes for y. Let me go ahead and move hello.c out of this folder, which I could just kind of drag and drop it. But how do I move hello C to the parent folder, so to speak. I want to move it out of this folder. Well, you would only know this by having been told dot dot is special notation. That means the so-called parent folder. So, go back up in the hierarchy. And now, if it's not obvious, a single dot, which we have seen before, means this folder. Two dots means one step up. There's no triple dots or quadruple dots. You have to use different syntax, but more on that another time. So, watch what happens when I do move hello.c up into the parent directory. Notice at top left that the indentation changed because it's no longer inside of that same folder. And heck, now I'm going to go ahead and do this. I could go back to my main folder by doing cd dot dot to back out of this folder. But when in doubt or if you ever get yourself into a confusing mess, just type cd enter alone and you'll be magically whisked away to your default folder, a home directory so to speak, even though that too is a bit of a white lie. So that will lead you always where you're starting when logging in to c50.dev aka VS Code. And now I can see the folder which happens to be empty and the file. So let me go and do one last command rmder. Hello to really undo all of the work such that we're now back to where the story began. But the point here is just to demonstrate with that with these basic fundamental commands, you can do everything that you've taken for granted on Macs and PCs for years with a mouse instead. Questions on any of these here? Linux commands. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Files in a folder, how can you like to open? &gt;&gt; Really good question. If you have five different f files in a folder, how can you choose which one to open? Well, you can certainly do code space and the name of the file you want to open. Or we're going to see other tricks like you can use an asterisk or star for a so-called wild card and say open everything in this folder. And you can even use more precise patterns than that. So over time once we have more files at my disposal, I'll be able to do tricks like that as well too. Yeah. &gt;&gt; I don't know if I said it back. &gt;&gt; Uhhuh. when you like delete the file was that hello was that hello. &gt;&gt; Sure. So one of the things I did in my VS code a moment ago was once I was inside of the hello folder into which I had put hello.c just for the sake of discussion. I then recompiled it by running makehello. And this example is a little confusing deliberately in so far as I've got a file called hello.c C inside of a folder called hello. But because I compiled hello.c, I then created a program called hello as well. But that program hello was inside of a folder called hello. Which is only to say that you can totally do this. You can't have a file in a folder in the same place named the same thing because they would collide. Like you can't do that on a Mac or a PC as well. You have to have unique names. But you can certainly put something inside of another folder without collision. Good question. All right. So let's introduce a few more building blocks and a few more things we can do. So besides these Linux commands which we'll now start taking for granted, we have a bunch of other features of of programming languages that we saw in Scratch. Let's now translate them to C. So conditionals were sort of the proverbial fork in the road enabling you to do this or this or some other thing based on the answer to a question, a so-called boolean expression. Here for instance in scratch is how we might express if a variable x is less than a variable y we'll go ahead and say x is less than y and out of context I didn't include it in the slide presumably we've created x and y and somehow given them values whatever they are but this is just now the conditional part of the program in C the way you would do the same thing is you would say if and then a space then parentheses which have nothing to do with functions if is not a function it is a feature of C that implements conditionals just like this orange block is a feature of scratch inside of the parenthesis you put your same boolean expression. So here too out of context if up here I have defined variables X and Y well I can certainly use them in this conditional and I can use this less than operator just like in math class to ask this question and the answer even though it's a less than sign is indeed if you think about it going to be true or false yes or no. It's a boolean expression. It either is less than or it is not. All right. Inside of the curly braces which are necessary here I'm just going to literally put our old friend print f. And there's nothing interesting here except the new phrase x is less than y with the backslash end the semicolon and the parenthesis. This though is deliberate just like in Scratch the say is sort of indented and sort of hugged by the if orange puzzle piece. Similarly do these curly braces are they meant to sort of imply the same. It's sort of embracing these lines of code. As an aside in C they're not always necessary. If you have a single line of code you can technically omit them. However, what you'll see in C as in as well as in CS50 in particular, we will generally preach a certain style like any company in the real world would do so that programmers who are collaborating on code all write code that looks the same uh so that it doesn't uh devolve into a mess because everyone has their own convention. So this is a convention to which you should indeed it here and then I've indented four spaces to make clear logically that this line of code only executes if the answer to this question is true or yes. Meanwhile in Scratch if we had an if else condition so a two-way fork in the road. If x is less than y say so else say x is not less than y. How can I do that in c? Well if x less than y something else something else. And what are the uh what's goes in between those curly braces? Well, just two different print fs. X is less than Y or X is not less than Y. The only new thing here is we've added else and another pair of curly braces, just like we've got sort of two uh orange uh shapes hugging those two purple puzzle pieces there. All right, how about something a little more involved? And this looks like it's escalating quickly, but it's just because the scratch puzzle pieces are so big. If x is less than y, then say x is less than y. Else if x is greater than y, then say x is greater than y. else if x equals y then say x is equal to y. How can we do this and see almost the same idea. If x less than y else if x greater than y else if x equals equals y. Well before we reveal what's in the curly braces. This is not a typo. Why have I presumably done this even if you've never used C before. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Exactly. The single equal sign, which we've used already when storing a value from get string into a variable like answer, is technically the assignment operator. So humans decades ago decided that when faced with the situation where they wanted to copy from the right to the left a return value into a variable, it made sort of visual sense to use an equal sign because you want those two things ultimately to be equal. Even though you kind of read the code from right to left in that case, I can only imagine at some point the same people were in the room and they were coming up with the syntax for conditionals and like oh shoot we've already used equals for assignment. What do we now use for equality and the solution in C as well as in many other languages is literally this. They use two. So this is the equality operator whereas a single one is the assignment operator and it's just because now Scratch is designed for kids. No sense in confusing little kids with equal equal signs. So, Scratch uses a single equal sign, whereas C and most languages use double equal sign. So, a minor divergence there. What goes in the curly braces? Nothing all that interesting, just a bunch more print fs. But here's an opportunity to distinguish not only the equivalence of this scratch code with CC code, but a misdesign opportunity that we sort of tripped over if briefly last week. This is arguably not well designed even though it is correct. Why? Yeah, &gt;&gt; you don't need to ask. &gt;&gt; Yeah, we don't need to ask this third boolean expression. Is X equal equal to Y, so to speak? Well, logically, if we're using sort of normal person numbers, it's either less than or greater than or by default equal to. So, you're just wasting the computer's time and in turn the user's time by asking this third question. So, slightly better here would be get rid of the else if just have a default case, an else block so to speak, that looks like this. if it stands to reason that there's only three possibilities, you only really need to interrogate two of them out of the three. So, a minor optimization, but you could imagine doing that again and again and again in your code. You don't want to be wasting the computer or the user's time if you can improve things like that. All right. So, now that we have these equivalences between Scratch code and C code for these conditionals, well, what other things can we throw into the mix? Well, uh C has a whole bunch of operators. And just so that you've seen a list in one place, you've got not only assignment and less than and greater than and equality, but a few others here as well. Now, even though in like Microsoft Word, in Google Docs, you can kind of do a greater than or equal to sign one over the other or less than or equal to, in C in most languages, you actually just hit the keyboard twice. You do the less than and an equal sign, or you do a greater than and the equal sign. And that's how you achieve the notion of greater than or equal to or less than or equal to. Um, this one we've seen. Anyone want to guess what uh exclamation point equals means? Otherwise pronounced bang equals. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Not equal. So generally in programming you'll see an exclamation point implying the negation of something else. The opposite. So you don't want it to be equal to, you want it to be not equal to. Now you might think, shouldn't it be not equal equal? Yes, but they're trying to save keystrokes. So this is the negation of that even though it doesn't quite look like it should be. just two characters instead of three. Um, and dot dot dot there's many other operators that we'll encounter in the wild over time. Um, but there's also worth noting in C more than just strings like strings recall were strings of text and there's other types of uh data that you might get from a user or store. We've seen string but we'll actually see a whole bunch of others. So in C we're going to see bools themselves a a variable that can be true or false and that's it. So very much interrelated with boolean expressions. A variable itself can be true or false. We're going to see chars or characters. So not strings of text like multiple letters and words and the like but just individual characters. C unlike some languages does distinguish between single characters and multiple characters. Uh double or rather let's jump to float. A float is otherwise known as a floatingoint value which is just a number that has a decimal point in it. a real number if you will, but a float generally uses nowadays 32 bits total to represent those numbers. The catch with that is that how many total values can you represent with 32 bits roughly per last week? It was one of the few numbers I propose you remember. It's like roughly 4 billion. But how many real numbers are there in the world according to math class? An infinite number. So we seem to have a mismatch between what we can represent in code and how many actual numbers there are in the world. Okay, so not to worry if you need more precision like more significant digits. Well, you can upgrade your variable so to speak from a float to a double which uses 64 bits which is way more precise twice as many bits but it doesn't fundamentally solve the problem because really it's still finite and not infinite. And we'll end today with a look at what the real world implications of that are. But besides floatingoint values, they're just simple integers. 0 1 2 and the negatives thereof. Uh but those conventionally use 32 bits, which means the highest a computer can count using an int would be 4 billion. But if you want to do negative numbers, it's going to be roughly 2 billion. So you can go all the way to negative 2 billion. So that's not that large nowadays. Along uses 64 bits, which is a much bigger range of values, but there too still finite. And there's a bunch of others as well. So these are just the types of data that we can store and manipulate in our programs. But a couple of those know do uh couple of those one in particular specifically come from cs50.h. So among the things you get by including cs50.h in your code is access to not only get string but these other functions as well. And we'll start to use these in a little bit whereby you can get integers or chars or doubles or floats. We don't have a get bool cuz it's not really useful to just get a true or false value typically, but we could have invented it. We just chose not to. But we'll frequently use these here functions that you can access by using that there header file. But where are we going to put these values and how are we going to display them? Well, turns out there's more than just percent s. So percent s was a placeholder for a string, but if you want to print out something like a char, a single character, you're actually going to use percent c. If you want to print out a floatingoint value, you're going to use percent f. An integer percent i and a long integer that is a long, you're going to use percent li instead. So in short, there's solutions to all of these problems. These are not uh intellectually interesting details, but they are useful practical things to eventually absorb over time. So let's go ahead and do this. Let's do just a few more examples together. In a little bit we'll journey and we uh for a short break uh during which uh snacks will be served every week out in the transep. But before we get to that, let's uh focus on these here variables. So in Scratch we had the ability to store a bunch of values in variables that we could create ourselves by creating new puzzle pieces. In C you can essentially achieve the same. So for instance suppose that in Scratch we wanted to keep track of someone's score using a counter. Well, we might create a variable called counter and set it initially to zero and then eventually add one to it, add two to it, and so forth as they drop trash into the trash can, for instance. Well, in C, you're going to do something almost the same. You can choose the name of your variable just like I did previously with answer. You can assign it a value like zero initially, but per earlier, what more am I probably going to have to do in C on the right hand side here? Yeah, &gt;&gt; I got to give it a type and a counter in. in so far as it's numeric is not going to be a string of text and I don't think I need to worry about decimal points if I'm just counting the equivalent on my fingers. So int will suffice and int is the go-to number and le at at least if two billion plus values is more than enough for your case which this is going to be still one minor thing missing. Yeahm &gt;&gt; the semicolon to finish the thought. So that on the right is the equivalent to doing this here on the left. Suppose that in Scratch you wanted to increment the counter and add one to the score, add two to the score and so forth. It might look like this. Change counter by one implicitly going up unless you did negative which would go down. In C, you can do this actually in a few ways. And this looks a bit wrong at the moment. How can counter possibly equal counter + one. This does not mean equality per se. The single equal sign recall is assignment and it means take the value on the right and copy it to the value on the left or to the variable in this case on the left. So this takes whatever the current value of counter is zero adds one to it and then stores that one in the counter variable. So now the value is one and if you do it again it goes to two goes to three goes to four and so forth. But honestly this incrementation technique is so common that there's more shorthand notation for it. You can also just do this. Looks a little weird at first glance but counter plus equals 1 semicolon does the exact same thing. You can just type fewer keystrokes. And honestly, doing this is so down common in C that you can even do this counter plus plus does the exact same thing by adding one to the variable. There's no plus+ or plus+ or more pluses. It's only for incrementing individual values by one. So arguably this version and this version, albeit more verbose, are a little more versatile because you can add two or three or more at a time. And there are equivalents for you doing decrementation and doing minus minus or the minus symbol more generally in there. All right, so let's actually use this technique in some code. Let me go back into VS Code here. Let me close my file explorer and let's go ahead and create maybe this time like a a little calculator of sorts. Let me propose that we implement a very baby calculator or rather not even a calculator yet. Let's just compare some few values. So let me do this code of compare C to create a brand new program called compare. And then in here I'm going to do a bit of boilerplate. I'm going to go ahead and include cs50.h. I'm going to go ahead and include standard io.h. And I'm going to go ahead and uh do int main void. More on that next week. And then inside the curly braces, let's use these these new techniques. Let's give myself a variable called x and set it equal to the return value of get int. that other function I promised exists. And let's prompt the user for a value for x with a sentence like what's x question mark and then a space just to nudge the cursor over. Let's get another variable y. Set it equal to get int again and ask the user this time what's y essentially using the same function twice but to get two different values. Now let's go ahead and do something pretty mindless. If x is less than y, go ahead and print out with print f x is less than y. Back slashn to move the cursor close quote semicolon. So it's not that interesting of a program, but it's at least dynamic in that now I'm prompting the user for two numbers. So let's do this. Make compare. Enter. Seems to have worked. And in fact, I can check that it worked by typing what command to list the files in my directory. ls for short. And now you'll see I've got hello.c. C, but no hello because I deleted that with rm a few minutes ago. I've got compare.c which I just created. And then I've also got a program called compare. And the asterisk there is just a visual indicator that this is executable. It's a program you can run. It's not just a simple old file. Even though I didn't type ls previously with hello, uh it would have similarly had an asterisk next to it in this context. But you don't see that in the file explorer. If I now do compare, well, let's do something silly like one for x, two for y. Okay, X is less than Y. Let's do it again. Dot slashcompare two for X, one for Y. Okay, and I see nothing. Well, why am I seeing nothing? Well, logically, I didn't have a condition for checking for greater than, let alone equal to. So, let's enhance this a little bit. Let me go ahead and minimally say, all right, else if X is not less than Y, let's go ahead and print out X is not less than Y back slashn close quote semicolon. So I'm at least handling that situation too. Let me clear my terminal window. Do make compare again. Dot /compare one and two works exactly the same. Now let me go ahead and do two and one. There we have better output. Of course it's not really complete yet because if I do dot slash compare again and do one and one, it'd be nice to be a little more specific than x is not less than y. It's not wrong but it's not very precise. So I can add in the to the mix what we did earlier and I can say okay well else if x is greater than y say x is greater than y else if x equals equals y go ahead and print out x is equal to y back slashn close quote but here too someone observed that this is sort of stupidly inefficient what line of code should I actually improve here to tighten this up yeah &gt;&gt; instead What else did you just get rid of? &gt;&gt; Yeah. So line 17. I think I can just get rid of that unnecessary question because logically that's going to be the case at this point. And now I can go ahead and recompile this with make compare dot / compare again. Enter one and one. And now we're back in business catching all three of those situations uh those uh scenarios there. Questions on any of these things here? Why have I deliberately not done this? Let me rewind just a moment and let me hide my terminal window just to keep the emphasis on the code here. Why not do this and keep my code arguably simpler? Like why not just ask three questions? Step nine, step 13, and step 17 here. Yeah. What don't you like? &gt;&gt; Because then it would check each and every condition. Um even though for example the first one might be fulfilled, it would check the second and third. That wasted Exactly. It's another example of bad design because now no matter what, you were asking three questions on lines 9, 13, and 17. Even if X ends up being less than Y from the get-go, you're still wasting everyone's time by saying, "Wait, well, is X greater than Y?" You already might know that it's not. Is X equal to Y? You already might know that it's not. And so these three conditionals at the moment are mutually exclusive, whereby you're checking all three of them no matter what. even though logically that shouldn't be necessary. So our first approach was actually quite better. And in fact, just to show you the the density difference here, let me go back to this very first version here whereby I was only checking that one condition. Is X less than Y? Well, if you're more of a visual learner, you can actually draw out what code looks like in flowchart form. So here is a drawing of a program that starts here and ideally stops down here. And each of these uh figures in the middle sort of represent logical components of the code. Uh here in the di in the diamond here is my boolean expression which represents the start of the conditional. So if x is less than y I have a decision to make yes or no true or false. Well if it is less than y true. Well let's go ahead and print out quote unquote x is less than y and then stop. However the first version of that program recall just said nothing if it were not the case that x were less than y. That's because false just led to the stop of the program. There's no keyword stop. There's just no hand no code to handle that situation. But the second version of the code when I actually added an else looked fundamentally a little different. So now second version of that code asked is X less than Y and if true behavior is exactly the same. But if it weren't true, it were instead false, that's when I got the message X is not less than Y. But in the third version of the code where I added the if else if else if then the picture gets a little more complicated and let me zoom in top to bottom here we have a longer flowchart but the questions are really the same. When I start this program I ask is s is x less than y. If so I print out x is less than y. However in that la sorry in that last version of the program I was still foolishly asking the same question. Well wait a minute. Is x greater than y? Wait a minute. is x equal to y and that's the version in which again I had all of that unnecessary code which I just undded here asking three questions at a time ideally I don't want to make that mistake by doing it again and again and again so if I instead revert that code to else if and else if then my flowchart looks a little bit different because notice the sort of shortcuts now if x is less than y true we do this and we're done Super quick. If X is not less than Y, fine. We do ask one more question. X is greater than Y. Well, if so, boom. We make our way to the end of the program by just printing that. Only if it's the perverse case where X equals equals Y. Do we check this condition? No. This condition, no. This condition, and then okay, now we can print out X is equal to Y because it must be logically. Of course, it's been observed multiple times. This is a waste of everyone's time. So we can prune this chart more and just have one question, two questions and that alone tightens up the program. So again, if you're more of a visual learner, most any block of code you can re translate to this sort of pictorial form, but it really just captures the same logical flow that the indentation and the syntax and the code itself is meant to imply. All right, how about a final exercise with one other type here? Recall that this is our available types to us. Actually, two final examples here before we have a bit of a break. Here we have a list of types that we can use. And here we have a list of functions that we can use. Let's go ahead and make a a program that's representative of something we do quite often nowadays, but using a different type. So, let me go back into VS Code. Let me close compare.c. Let me reopen my terminal window and clear it just so we have a new prompt. And let's go ahead and create a program called agree.c. It's all too often nowadays that we have to like agree to terms and conditions. To be fair, it's usually in the form of like a popup and a button that we click, but we can do this in code at the command line as well. Let me go ahead and include to start CS50.h and include to start standard io.h. Let me again for today's purposes do int main void, but we'll reveal next week what we why we keep doing that. And now for a yes no answer, it suffices just to ask for a single char or character, not a whole string. So let's do this. char C equals get char and let's ask the user quote unquote do you agree question mark for instance and now I can actually compare that value for equality with some known answers for instance I could say if c equals equals quote unquote y then go ahead and print out for instance agreed period back slashn close quote semicolon else if c equals equals equals n in quotes. Let's go ahead and print out, for instance, not agreed period back slashn semicolon. Now, there's still room for improvement here, but notice we're just now using the same building blocks in C um in different ways to solve different problems. But notice on lines 8 and 12, I've used single quotes, which I alluded to earlier. Why is that the case? Why single in this case here? &gt;&gt; Yeah, it's a single character. And this is just the way you do it in C. When you want to compare a single character, you use chars and you use single quotes. When you want to use strings of text, like multiple characters, multiple words, multiple sentences or paragraphs, you use strings. So this would seem to work, but arguably I could be a little more efficient. If the user doesn't type why, I mean, frankly, I could just chop off this else if and make it an else and just assume if you don't give me a Y answer, then at least I'm going to assume the worst and you don't agree. But even here, the program's not all that great. Let me go ahead and do make agree and then do dot slag agree. And do I agree? Sure. I'm going to go ahead and type y. Meanwhile, if I type anything else like n or uh even emphatically, no, that would seem to Whoops. Why did that not work? Yeah. &gt;&gt; Exactly. So, among the features of CS50's functions like getchar is that it will enforce what type of data you're getting. So even though I it because I used getchar, if the user doesn't cooperate and types in multiple characters, get char like some of our other functions is just designed to prompt them again again and again until they cooperate. That's useful so that you don't have to deal with that kind of error checking. But here I could type n in uppercase and that seems to now work. But that only works because of the else. Let me go ahead and do this which is very reasonable. I'm going to go ahead and type y capital y which you would hope works. That feels like a bug at this point. Like it's fine if we don't want to support yes and no. We just want to support Y and N. But it's kind of obnoxious not to support the uppercase version thereof. So how can we fix this? Well, let me hide my terminal window. And I could go in and fix this as follows. I can say well else if C equals equals quote unquote capital Y in single quotes. And then I could do print out agreed period back slashn semicolon. And then I can do uh else uh that that would work. That would work there. But what rubs you the wrong way perhaps about this solution? Even if you've never programmed before, just applying some of the lessons from last week. Yeah, &gt;&gt; it's redundant. I mean, I didn't technically copy and paste, but like line 14 is identical to line 10, so I might as well have copied and paste. And that's generally bad practice. Why? Well, if I want to change the English language to say something else in that case, now I have to change it twice. And it's just I'm repeating myself, which is just bad design. So, there are ways to address this through other types of operators that we haven't yet seen. If I want to ask two questions at once, that's fine. I can do something like this. Well, if C equals equals quote unquote Y or C equals equals quote unquote capital Y, I can tighten things up using so-called logical operators whereby I am now taking a boolean expression and composing it from two smaller boolean expressions. And I care about the answer to one of those questions being true. So whether it's lowercase Y or uppercase Y, this code now will work. And if it's anything else, we're going to default to not agreed. So the two vertical bars, which is probably not a character you type that often, and it varies where it is on your keyboard depending whether it's American English or something else, just means logical or. This is not relevant here, but you could also in some context use two amperands to conote and. But this does not make sense. Why? Why is it clearly not correct to say and in between these two clauses? Yeah, &gt;&gt; exactly. The variable can't both be lowercase and uppercase. That just makes most no sense. So, this would be a bug, but using a vertical two vertical bars here is in fact correct. All right. Well, let's do one final flourish here. Besides conditionals, we had these now loops. Recall that a loop is just something that does something again and again and again. Here for instance to scratch how we might meow three times in C. There's going to be a few different ways to do this. Here is one. You can in C declare a variable like I for integer or whatever you want to call it and set it equal to three, the number you care about. You can then use a loop and the closest to the repeat block is arguably a while loop. There is no repeat keyword in C. So we can't translate this verbatim, but we could say while I is greater than zero. Why? Because that's sort of logically what I want to do. If I start counting at three, maybe I can just sort of decrement one at a time and get down to zero, at which point I can stop doing this thing. So I'm going to initialize a variable to I, a variable I to three, and then I'm going to say while I is greater than zero, go ahead and do the following. And at the end of that loop before whipping around again, I'm going to use this line of code, which we haven't seen, but you can infer. IUS minus just means subtract one from I. So this is going to have the effect of starting at three, going to two, going to one, going to zero. And as soon as it goes to zero, this boolean expression will no longer be true. And so the loop will just implicitly stop because that's it. So what are we going to put inside of the curly braces besides this decrementation? Well, I think I can get away with just saying meow. And that will now print 1 2 3 times. And yet that's interesting. I sort of counted in instinctively 1 2 3 even though I'm proposing that we count 3 2 1. So can we implement the logic in the other direction whereby we count up from zero instead of down from three. Well sure we just have to make a few changes. We can set i equal to zero initially. We can change our boolean expression to check that i is less than three again and again. And on each iteration of this loop let's just keep incrementing i with i ++. And at this point it will have the effect of doing 1 2 3. Three is not less than three. So I won't put any more fingers up. I will meow in total three total times. And again, if you're a visual person, here's how we might start counting at zero initially. Check that i is less than three, which it is initially. And if so, we print out meow. Then we increment i, and we get whisked around again to the boolean expression because that's how while loops work. You constantly have the condition being checked again and again. That's just how C works. As soon as I've incremented I from 0 to 1 to two to three, three will eventually not equal not be less than three. So the answer will be false. So the loop will just stop. So that has the effect of achieving the same. But it turns out that looping uh some amount of times is so darn common that you don't strictly have to use a while loop. A for loop, so to speak, is another alternative there too, whereby the syntax is a little weird. It's a little harder to memorize, but it allows you to write slightly less code because you write more code on a single line. So the way you read a for loop is exactly the same in spirit. You initialize the variable everything to the left of this first semicolon. The you then check the condition and the computer does all this for you. If I less than three, if so, you execute what's inside of the curly braces and then automatically the thing to the right of the second semicolon happens. So I gets incremented from zero to one. In this case, the condition is checked. Is one less than three? It is. So, we print meow again. And C increments I to two. Is two less than three? Yes. So, we meow again. I gets incremented to three. Is three less than three? No. So, the for loop stops. So, it's exactly the same, but just more magic is happening in this first line of code here more than you yourselves have to actually write. And it's just arguably more common convention. But both of them are perfectly correct if you'd like to do that yourself. So let's go ahead and actually implement now this this beginning of a cat in VS Code. Let me go back to VS Code and close agree.c. Let me reopen my terminal window and create a actual cat in cat.c. And let's go ahead and do this initially the wrong way. Include standard io.h int main void. And then inside of main let's go ahead and print out quote unquote meow back slashn semicolon. And then heck, let me just copy paste. So this is obviously the wrong way, the bad way to do this because I'm literally copying and pasting. But it is correct. If I want the cat to meow three times, I can make this cat. I can do slashcat and I get my meow meow meow. But let's now actually use some of those new building blocks whereby we converted scratch to C. And let me go back into this code and I'll do the while loop first. So I could instead have done int i equals 3. If we count down initially while I is greater than zero, then go ahead and print out quote unquote meow back slashn. And then do I plus+ or I minus minus? I minus minus because we're starting at three. Now let me go back to my terminal window and clear it. Do make cat again. Dot /cat and we get three meows. And this is now arguably better implemented. What if I want to flip things around? Well, I could now change uh maybe do it the normal person way. I could start counting at zero. And I can do this so long as I is less than three. And I can do this so long as I increment I on each iteration. Now I can do make cat again. Dot /cat. Enter. And that too works. But there's another way I could do this. If I want to count like a normal person, like start counting from one and count up two and through three, I could do this. But this is arguably this is correct. It would iterate three times. But it's a little confusing because now I have to think about what it means to be less than four. Okay, that means equal to three. I could be a little more explicit and say we'll do this while I is less than or equal to three using yet another one of those operators. So I can make a cat yet again dot /cat and that too would work. Now which of these is correct or best? The convention truthfully is in general in code to start counting from zero. start counting up to but not through the value that you want. So at least you see the starting point and the ending point on the screen if you will at the same time. But of course I can condense all of this a bit more and turn this whole thing into a for loop. And I instead could do four int i equals 0 i less than 3 i ++ and then down here I could do print out quote unquote meow. And if only because I typed fewer keystrokes that time like this feels a little nicer. It's a little tighter and more uh efficient to create even though the effect is the same. Indeed, when I make this cat and do dot /cat a final time, this here too gives me the three meows. So, what could go wrong? Well, sometimes you might be inclined to do something forever and we might have done that in Scratch and indeed we did when we had some things bouncing back and forth off of walls and so forth. You can achieve the same thing in code. In fact, in C we could use a while loop, but there is no forever block. So while suffices, but recall that the while loop expects a boolean expression. And if I want to do something forever, I essentially need an expression here that's always true. So I could do something stupid and uh arbitrary like while two is greater than three or while one is less than two. I mean make a statement of fact that never changes air go. It's just going to run forever. But if the whole goal here is to do something forever and to get this boolean expression to be true, the convention in programming is just to literally say while true. And that implies and functionally means that you will do this thing forever unless you somehow prematurely break out of those curly braces. More on that before long. So if I want to meow forever, I could now just do this. And this would be an infinite deliberate loop. But unlike a game where you might want it to keep going and going and going for some time, I'm not sure this is going to be the best thing for us. Let's go ahead and try this. So let me go ahead here and include for good measure uh CS50's library if only because um it too is giving us features like uh bools. Uh here I'm going to go ahead and say while true and then inside of my curly braces I'm just going to print out meow. Let's go ahead back slashn semicolon. Let's go ahead here and make cat one final time. Let me go ahead here and do dot slashcat. And this is like the annoying cat game. Just like meowing, meowing meowing endlessly. Like I've now kind of lost control over my terminal window. And mark my words, at some point you might do this, too. But let's go ahead and take a juicy 10-minute break here. Uh we have some delicious blueberry muffins out in the transep. Come back in 10 and we'll figure out how to stop this here cat. All right, so it's been about 10 minutes and like VS Code is freaking out with high code space, CPU utilization detected. Consider stopping some processes for the best experience. So this is what happens when you have intentionally or otherwise an infinite loop in so far as I've been printing out meow endlessly. And I was warned by my colleague that I probably shouldn't let this run too long because we might lose control over the environment altogether. But the answer to how to solve this is going to be control C. So there's a few cryptic keystrokes that you can use to generally interrupt things as in this way. And in fact, if I go back and you'll see, yeah, I kind of lost control over my code space here. I'm going to go ahead and try to reload the window altogether. But had I hit control C in time, let's hope this doesn't now go off the rails. C would have been our friend. There we go. And we're back. Okay. So, now that we've got control over our so-called code space again, how can we go about making our meowing program a little more dynamic in so far as let's like start asking the user how many times they want the cat to meow. Certainly, rather than do it an infinite number of times and even rather than do it three times alone, I think we have all of these building blocks thus far. So, let me go ahead and stay in cat.c here and go ahead and delete the body of the contents of my main function. And let's go ahead and do this. Let's give myself an int. And I'll go ahead and call it n for number. Though I could be more verbose than that if I wanted. I'm going to set it equal to the so-called return value of get int, which recall is going to get an integer from the user. And quote unquote, let's ask the user what's n just like I asked earlier, what's x and what's y, where n is the number of times I want the cat to meow. Now, how can I use this variable? Well, we have that building block, too. I could use a while loop or a for loop. And if I use a for loop, I could do this. I could initialize a variable i for integer, set it equal to zero initially. I could then do I less than not three this time but n. So I can use that variable as a placeholder inside of the loop to indicate that I want to do this n times instead of three. And on each iteration through this loop I can do i ++. Of course I could be counting down if I prefer uh by using decrementation. But logically I would say this is canonical. Start at zero and go up to but not through the value that you actually care about. And I'll go ahead now and print out quoteunquote meow with a back slashn semicolon. Back down to my terminal. Make this cat again. Dot slashcat. Enter. I'm prompted this time for n. I can still give it three and I'm going to get three meows this time. However, if I run it again with dot /cat and a different input like four, of course, I'm going to get four meows instead. Now, what is get in doing for me? Well, it does a few things similar to getch doing a few things for me. For instance, suppose that instead of answering this question correctly with a number n, I say something random like dog that is not an integer. And so the get in function is designed to reject the user's input implicitly and just reprompt again and again. Uh I can try bird and it's going to do this again. So somewhere in the implementation of get in, there's a loop that we wrote that does this kind of error checking for you. But it doesn't do everything because an integer is a fairly broad category of numbers. It's like negative infinity through positive infinity. And that's a lot of possibilities. But suppose I don't want some of those possibilities. Suppose that it makes no sense to ask the cat to meow like negative one time. And yet the program accepts that. It doesn't do anything or anything wrong. But I feel like a better designed program would say, "No, no, no. Negative one makes no sense. Let's meow zero or one or two or more times instead." So, how can I begin to add some of my own error checking and coers the user to give me the type of input I want? Well, let me clear my terminal window and go back up into my code. And why don't I do something like this? After getting n, let's just check if n is less than zero. Because if so, I want to prompt the user again. And I can prompt the user again by doing n equals get int quote unquote what's n question mark semicolon. Now what's going on here? Well on line six I'm doing two things. I'm getting an integer from the user and I'm not only storing it in the variable n. I'm also technically creating the variable n. So, I didn't call this out earlier, but on line six, when you specify the type of a variable and the name of the variable, you are creating the variable somewhere in the computer's memory. And that's necessary in C to specify the type. If the variable already exists though, and you just want to reuse it and change it later on, it suffices as in line 9 just to reference it by name. It would be sort of stupid to specify the type again because C already knows what type it is because you told C what it is on line six. So that's why lines six and nine are a little bit different. So let's see how this now works. Let me go back to my terminal window and remake this cat. Let me do dot /cat again. Let me not cooperate and type in like negative one again. And notice I am reprompted this time. Fine, fine, fine. Let's type in three. And now it works. But you can perhaps logically see where this is going. Let me go ahead and run this again. Dot /cat. Type in negative 1. Type in negative one. And huh, it didn't prompt me again. But that's consistent with the code. If I hide my terminal window here, you'll notice that I've got one maybe two tries to get this question right. And after that, there's no more prompting of me. Now, you can kind of imagine that this is probably not the best way to do this. If I were to go inside of line nine and then move the cursor down and say, "Okay, well, if n still doesn't uh is still is less than zero." Well, let's just do get int again and ask what's n question mark. And heck, okay, if it's still less than zero, well, let's just keep asking the same, right? Why is this bad? I'm repeating myself. I'm essentially copying and pasting even though I'm retyping. I mean, this just never ends, right? Like, how many chances are you going to give the user? In spirit, you'd hope that they don't un uh not cooperate this many times. But really to do this the right way, we should probably prompt them potentially as many times as it takes to get the correct input. So this is not the right path for us to be going down. But of course, we have already now this notion of like a loop whereby we could just do this in a loop. Ask the question once and maybe just repeat the question again, but the same question. So how might I do this? Well, let me go ahead and delete all of this. And let me just try to spell this out logically. So, I want to get a variable n from the user. And let's go ahead as follows. While true. I know how to do infinite loops now. And even though that created a problem for me with the cat, I bet we can sort of terminate the loop prematurely like I proposed earlier as follows. I could do this int n equals get int and ask the user again what's n question mark. And then I could do something like this. If n is less than zero, well then you know what? Go ahead and just continue on with the same loop. Else if it is not the case that n is less than zero, what do I want to do? I want to break out of this loop. So this is new syntax. This is something you can do in C whereby if n is less than zero, fine. Continue means go back to the start of the loop and do the same exact thing again. Otherwise, if you instead say break, it means break out of the loop and go to below whatever curly brace is associated with that loop. So, continue essentially brings you to the top. Break brings you to the bottom, if you will. So, logically, I think this is right, but this code curiously isn't quite going to work and get me a value for n. Let me go ahead and open my terminal window again. Let's make this cat. And, huh, cat. C line 19 character 25 is an error. Use of undeclared identifier N. Well, what does that mean? Again, cat. C line 19. Let me hide my terminal window. Highlight line 19. N is being used in line 19, but I created it in line 8. And so what's the problem? Why is it not declared seemingly? Yeah, &gt;&gt; because you are using like within the loop that you wrote. &gt;&gt; Yeah, this is a subtlety, but I'm using I'm creating N inside of this loop. I mean, literally between the curly braces on lines 7 and 17. The implication of which because of how C works is that that variable only exists inside of that for loop. This is a problem of what's known as scope. the variable n only exists inside of the scope of the while loop in which it was declared. So how do I actually fix this? Well, I need to logically somehow declare that variable n outside of the loop so that it exists later on in the program as well. And there's a few different ways I can fix this, but the best way is probably to move the the declaration of n, so to speak, the creation of n outside of the curly braces and maybe kind of squeeze it in here below line five. So still inside of main, whatever that is. More on that next week, but in the same curly braces as everything else. So I can in fact do this, and this is where the syntax gets a little bit different. I can solve this quite simply as follows. I can go down to a new line six and just say int n semicolon and that's it. This declares a variable called n. It creates a variable called n. And initially it doesn't give it any value. So who knows what's in there. More on that another time. But now on line 9, I don't need to recreate it. I just need to assign it a value. And because now n has been declared on line six and between the curly braces on line five and all the way down on 24. Now n is in scope so to speak for the entirety of this code that I've written. So let me reopen my terminal window and clear that old error. Let me do make cat again. Now the error messages is gone. Let me go ahead and do /cat. What's n? Now I'm back in business and I can do three for meow meow meow. Better yet, because I'm inside of a loop now, watch that I can do negative 1gative 1gative 1gative 1gative -2g350. Finally, I can cooperate with something like three. And because I'm in a loop that by design may very well go infinitely many times until the user actually cooperates and lets me break out of that exact loop. Now, I strictly speaking don't need both continue and break. I wanted to demonstrate that both exist, but this is like twice as much code than I actually need. If logically I just want to break out of this loop if and only if n is greater than or equal to zero because I'm sort of comfortable with the idea of zero meows but negative makes no sense. Well, I can just flip the logic. I can say if n is greater than or equal to zero then go ahead and break. And I've tightened up the code further. I could technically do something else. I could say something like if n is less than zero, but wait a minute. I want to negate that. You can start to do tricks like this. An exclamation point with some additional parentheses. So you can invert the logic. It's arguably a little hard to read. Even though that would be logically correct. So I'm just going to say more explicitly as before. If n is greater than or equal to zero, break out of this here loop. All right. So this is one way to use an infinite loop. But it turns out there's another construct that you can do altogether that is in a feature of C. Instead of using a while loop and forcing it to be infinite by using while true and then eventually manually breaking out of it, there exists another type of loop altogether and that's called a do while loop. And you can literally say the word do which means do the following. Then you can do exactly what we did before n equals get and quote unquote what's n question mark. So exactly like before but then after those curly braces you use a while keyword. So at the end of the loop instead of the beginning and that's where you put your boolean expression. I want to do all of that while n is less than zero. So you can kind of invert the logic and now kind of tighten things up further by just telling the computer do the following. What's the following? Everything in between those curly braces while n is less than zero. And this implicitly handles all of the continuation and all of the breaking by just doing what you've said. Do this while this is true. But the difference between this dowh loop and a normal while loop is literally that the condition is checked at the bottom instead of the top. So when you say while parenthesis something that question is asked first and then you proceed maybe this condition is only asked at the very end. And why is this useful? Well often time when writing programs where you want to do something at least once like you obviously want to ask the user this question at least once. There's no point in asking a question like while true or while anything else. You should just do it and then you should do it again if the expression evaluates to true and tells you to do something. Now you haven't played with these loops yet most likely unless you have programmed before. Uh there's a fun sort of meme that's apppropo of this moment. So let's see if this maybe causes a few chuckles. If you remember Looney Tunes here, is this funny for people in the know? There we go. Thank you. Okay, this doesn't make sense. It eventually will. And it still might not be funny, but it will at least make sense. And it illustrates the difference between doh while loop like the roadrunner is stopping because he's checking the condition. While not on edge, he'll run. But if he is on the edge, he's not going to proceed further. But of course, the coyote here, he's going to do running no matter what. And then only too late. Does he check? Haha. He's still on the ed. All right. So, ah, thank you. All right. Now, you're cool. All right. So, many more memes will now make sense as a result. But let's go ahead and revisit this code and maybe do something a little bit different here whereby we no longer want to just fuss around with some of these uh conditionals and these loops. Let's actually make the software a little better designed. And to do this, we'll revisit an idea that we touched on last week and had to do with problem set zero, which was like create your own function. Like C does not come with everything you might want. CS50 library is not going to come with everything you might want. And at the end of the day, a lot of programming is about abstracting away your ideas. So you solve a problem once and then reuse it, reuse it, reuse it. And heck, you can package it up in a so-called library like we have and let other people use it as well. So here for instance in Scratch is how we could have implemented the notion of meowing as by getting the cat to play the sound meow until done. We abstracted it away and then we had a magical new puzzle piece called meow in C. This is going to be a little weird today but next week these details will start to make more sense. You would instead do the following. Literally type void the name of the function you want to create and then void again in parenthesis. For now know that this is the return value of the function. So void means it returns nothing. This is the input to or the arguments to the function. Void means it takes no inputs. And that makes sense because literally meow doesn't return anything. It doesn't take anything. It just meows. It has a so-called side effect audibly last week. So this means hey c invent a function called meow that takes no input, produces no