regret to say uh the semicolon is back for the SQL code we're now writing. Enter. and we will see a sort of asy art version now. So even better than the raw CSV file of all of the data that was imported into this table. So select star from favorites is apparently selecting everything. So the star in this context is a wild card of sorts that represents all of the columns in the table. The table itself is called favorites. So I'm selecting all of the columns from the table called favorites. And here you have it with sort of simple ASKI art. first column, second column, third column, chronologically listed because that's exactly how it was loaded into the database. All right, so if star is wild card, what more can we do? Well, if you don't care about all of the columns, you can actually be a little more specific. So I could say instead, select just the language column from the favorites table, semicolon, enter. And now I have just a single column of data that shows me one cell for every submission but not the timestamp or the favorite problem that that person put in. Or if I want to declare that I want a couple of columns. So I can say select language and problem but I don't care about the timestamp from favorites as such and now you get two columns instead. So in short, rather than write the dozen or so lines of code that we earlier did with Python to open the file and then iterate over it with a reader, we just select what data we want from this here database. But even more powerfully, SQL comes with a whole bunch of functions built in. Quite like the spreadsheet software that you and I are already familiar with in the real world like Excel and numbers and Google Sheets. SQLite comes with an average function, account function, distinct lower, min, max, min, uppercase, and so forth. There's a whole list of them. We'll play around with just a couple of these. If we want to transform some of this data, let me go back into VS Code, clear my SQL light terminal, and suppose I just want to get the total number of rows in the favorites table, like how many people at the moment in time I downloaded the file, even if not everyone had quite buzzed in yet, did I end up with in that file? Well, I could say select the count of all of the rows from the favorites table semicolon. And now I'll get back a single cell which gives me 272 submissions had come in the moment I downloaded that file. Suppose I want to see just to confirm that no one submitted bogus data. Which languages were actually among those typed in? Well, I can select only the distinct languages that were typed in from the favorites table. And now I get a unique list of languages that everyone buzzed in with irrespective of how many times. If I want to maybe get um how many distinct languages there are, if it's not as obvious as three here, I could select the count of distinct languages from the favorites table and it would just tell me the answer. Three is the total number of languages that are distinct in that submission. So again, it's even easy to just eyeball this, but very quickly with single statements that are sort of English-like left to right is enabling me to just select the answers I want to some of these problems. Well, what more can SQL do? Well, here is a bunch of other uh keywords that we can add to our SQL commands that allow us to control further what kind of data we're going to get back. We're going to be able to group data by similar values. We're going to check for not just string equality, but for uh fuzzy matching, checking if something is close to a string that we're looking for. We can limit the total number of rows coming back. We can order or sort the data by a certain column. And we can actually have predicates, so to speak, using a wear, which is similar in spirit to an if condition, but a little more succinctly written instead. So, for instance, let me go back to VS Code here. Let me clear my terminal again, and let me go ahead and select how many of you answered C is your favorite language. Without selecting all of the counts again, let's just uh hit the nail on the head. So, let's select the count of rows from the favorites table where the language selected equals quote unquote C semicolon. And I get back a simple answer. 58 of you buzzed in with the answer C. How many of you liked both C and very specifically the problem called hello world? If you sort of that was the extent of your sort of um the passion for for code, let's go ahead and select the count of star from favorites where the language you typed in equals quote unquote C. Uh and the problem you typed in equals quote unquote hello, world semicolon. And it looks like five of you said your favorite language was C and your favorite program was hello world. Great. All right, so it's getting a little more interesting. What about the other version of hello world where we called it hello, it's me. Well, that one's interesting because I think it's going to break my convention of using single quotes, which would be convention here in SQL. Whenever you're using a raw string, single quotes here would be the norm. But let's type this out. So, select count of star uh from favorites where language equals quote unquote C. And the problem this time equals quote unquote hello, it's me. So, at a glance, this is probably going to confuse SQLite 3 because does that middle apostrophe belong to the first one or the second one? This is ambiguous. And this is weird. In C, we would solve this problem by putting a backslash in front of it in a so-called escape character. Different languages have different conventions. This one's a little weird, but in SQLite, what you instead do is doubly single quote it. So putting two single quotes is the convention for escaping a single quote just because you got to remember or Google these kinds of things in the real world if you forget. Enter. Now I get back that. So not it was not the case that any of you liked both C and that problem specifically. Well, what if we want to be a little more inclusive of either hello problem? Well, I could do this in this way. Uh just like in my uh code spaces terminal, I can go up and down to go back through my history. Same thing in SQLite. So I can go back to commands to get up here and let me go ahead and write something longer where the problem is hello world or the problem equals quote unquote hello it's double apostrophe me single apostrophe semicolon oh and parenthesis. So it's wrapped onto two lines here. So, it's a little messy, but I'm just logically saying where you buzzed in with C as your language and a problem of hello world or a problem of hello, it's me. Enter. It should be the same answer as before because none of you liked hello, it's me. But I chose this syntax because I can actually make this a little cleaner. I can go and delete this whole parenthetical and just say where language equals C. And the problem is like quote unquote hello, percent sign, single quote semicolon. So this is a little weird too. It's just how SQL does this instead. But whereas previously I was using an equal sign to check for literal string equality like literally those problem names, like allows me to use wild cards. And it's not a wild card quite like the previous used of the asterisk that we saw. When you are using a wild card in a string in SQL, you say percent sign to represent zero or more characters there. So hello, space percent is going to hopefully match this or the other problem that started with hello, so let me go ahead now and hit enter. The answer is still going to be the same, but indeed it's demonstrative that that is how you could express yourself a little more generally if you wanted a pattern match like that. Questions now on any of these techniques? Yeah, &gt;&gt; capitalization capitaliz. &gt;&gt; Uh, good question. Does it have to be capitalized when doing string equality? Yes, but not with like. Like will tolerate case insensitivity. So uppercase or lower case, &gt;&gt; but like count and everything. &gt;&gt; Oh. Oh, I see. Good question. So the capitalization so stylistically in SQL I would argue and this is a stylistic convention in SQL certainly for CS50 and also for a lot of companies and communities in the world to uppercase your SQL keywords just to make them stand out from words that you and I chose as like the name of the table or the name of the columns therein. This is just a convention. I would propose like always to be consistent but for CS50 and for style50 sake I would propose that you indeed capitalize like this. And frankly, it just makes it easier to read to my eye because the SQL stuff jumps out and then the lowercase stuff is specific to your data set. A good question. All right. How about another uh set of keywords that we saw on the screen earlier, namely grouping by? Well, suppose we have a data set like this whereby we suppose we have a data set like this whereby how does this go? Happy Halloween. whereby here's just an excerpt from that table. So for as languages go uh say one of you liked C, two of you like or three of you liked Python and then now that we're introducing SQL, let's imagine that two of you now like SQL even better. So that's the extent of the data set. Wouldn't it be nice to be able to figure out how many of you like C or Python or SQL? Well, I could write some Python code, open the file, iterate over it using variables, using a dictionary, and those what 20 or so lines of code we wrote earlier to answer this question. Wouldn't it be nice to just ask the SQL language to figure out how many of you like C, how many of you like Python, how many of you like SQL? We can do this by grouping these cells by common values. Let's group all of the Python rows together and all of the SQL rows together. And even though there's just one, all of the C rows as well. So, how can we do this? Well, let me go back to VS Code here and clear my terminal. And let's do this. Let's select every language but its respective count as well from the favorites table. But before you do any of that, group everything by language. So this one takes a little more practice and getting used to, but this is simply saying select all of the it's saying look at the languages essentially group all of the common languages together and then figure out what count that gives you for all of the grouped rows. If I hit enter here, we'll get an answer just like the Python code that took me 20 lines of code to write earlier. What's really happening though in the database is something a little bit like this. Notice, of course, that there's only one version of C. There's then three versions of Python and there's two examples of SQL. And the table I'm essentially building is to group all of those by identical values and then spit out the total counts here. Now on the screen, it's just one, three, and two. in the data set with some 200 plus responses, we have much larger answers including scratch instead of SQL right here. But this now sort of speaks to just how much more convenient it is to if you want to ask a question like that, especially if the data set is more than a couple of hundred rows. If your boss for instance in the real world has a CSV data set and wants you to analyze the data, well, you can literally download it, import it into SQLite, run one command, and boom, like you've got this analysis done. if the extent of it is just to group the data and figure out uh what kinds of uh counts you have in the data set. All right, what else can we do? Well, we can play around with this a bit more. Let me go back here into VS Code and propose that we could uh order those results more than in just the uh the default way. So, let's go ahead and select the language uh and the count from the favorites table yet again. Let's group by language yet again, but this time let's order by the counts column in descending order. So, it's a bit more of a mouthful and it takes some practice to memorize all of the syntax, but when I hit enter now, I get back the same answers, but Python is at the very top of the list. Now, count star isn't necessarily all that self explanatory, and indeed, it's a little annoying that I have to write out count star here at top right as well as in the beginning. So, it turns out SQL also supports aliases. So if you want to change the temporary name of the column to be something else like n for number, well then I can actually define an alias with the keyword as order by n at the end of this statement and then hit enter and get back the same results too. And so if it's not sort of implicitly clear already, each of these SQL select commands is essentially giving me back a temporary table. This is not being saved anywhere. Like now it's gone from the computer's memory once I've actually gotten my answer. But it's essentially returning a subset of the tables that do exist in the computer's memory because that's what the import command did for me. It loaded the whole data set into memory. And now I have these temporary tables that are just containing the answers to questions I care about. And if you only care about the top one language, well, there's a limit keyword, too. I can literally just say limit one at the end of that exact same statement. Enter. And now I've got a single answer to my question. A single row saying Python was the most popular with 190 people selecting that. All right, for now I think that's enough on select. There's a few more keywords, but it really is just a matter of composing these building blocks. Questions though on these capabilities fundamentally. All right. Well, how about maybe inserting data instead? So here might be the canonical way to insert a row into a table in SQL. You literally say insert into then the name of the table then in parenthesis the one or more columns for which you have data and then literally the word values and then in another set of parenthesis a commaepparated list of the one or more values that you want to insert into those there columns. So for instance let me go back into VS code here. And of course at the time we circulated this form a few minutes ago we had not yet assigned problem set 7. But in problem set seven is a problem called 50ville, which let's propose might very well be someone's favorite in a week. So let's go ahead and insert that row now pro uh preemptively. Let's insert into the favorites table two columns, language and problem. Why? Well, I don't really care to figure out what the time stamp is and the format thereof. So I'm just going to omit the time stamp altogether. But the values I'm going to insert for this new row are going to be are going to be quote unquote SQL comma quote unquote uh 50 bill close quote close parenthesis semicolon enter. Nothing bad seems to have happened. Let me go ahead and select star from favorites just to see what my data set looks like now. And indeed at the bottom of the file or the bottom of the table indeed there is that new row. But what's sort of noteworthy is that this isn't just blank. There's our old friend null, which is not a null pointer. It's the same word literally, null l, and it refers explicitly to the absence of data. And this is actually a nice feature because if any of you have ever used like Google spreadsheets, Apple numbers, Microsoft Excel, and thought about uh or looked at cells that are blank, like what does it mean if a spreadsheet cell is blank? Does it mean like there's literally no data there? Does it mean that you just don't have the data there or it's missing in some form? Well, how do you address that? Well, maybe you put like n sl a in English for like not available or something like that, but that's kind of hackish. And if you use na, that might mean that no one can actually type na as their answer. And so what's nice about SQL and data and database languages more generally is that null signifies the conscious omission of data. It's not just a missing value. It's consciously not there. It's not just the empty string, quote unquote, for instance. So we might see different examples of that. But what's nice now is that I can distinguish null from other values. And in fact, if that is not a good idea to have any data in my data set that is null for whatever reason, like it just looks like bogus data, it would nice to know who inserted that when. No problem. We can also delete data from a table in SQL. And I can delete from the name of the table where some condition is true. So for instance, if I want to delete that, I can do this in a couple of ways, but perhaps the simplest is to delete from favorites where uh timestamp is null. Semicolon. So is 2 is another SQL keyword here. And that will go ahead and delete only those rows where the time stamp is null. Enter. Let's do the same select command as before. Enter. And voila, that row is now gone. Be very, very, very careful with delete statements. If I had foolishly done this, want to guess what the results would be? It would delete everything. And like you can Google around and see actual articles of like interns at companies who had way too much access to a company database executing something like delete from favorites because they forgot the predicate. They hit enter too soon. and boom, all of the data is now gone. So these are very destructive commands and just like in the real world, if you don't have backups or versions of these same tables, the data can indeed be lost forever. So don't do that. Always have your wear and make sure your wear is correct. All right. Well, let's go ahead maybe and um suppose let's claim that maybe 50ville is going to be a really popular problem among students. So much so that it becomes overnight everyone's favorite problem. Well, we can update the table as is. Here is the general syntax for updating rows in a table. You literally say update the name of the table, the word set, and then a bunch of key value pairs. The column that you want to update, setting it equal to the value that you want to update it to where some condition is true. So, what does this mean concretely? Well, let's say that we want to change everyone's favorite to SQL and 50ville. I could do this. update favorites set language equal to SQL comma problem equal to 50ville close quote semicolon and this is where again it can be dangerous but in this case I'm going to go ahead and hit enter without any predicate to filter this nothing bad seems to happen but if I now do select star from favorites semicolon all of you would seem to like 50 bill and there is no going back to the previous version of the table unless I quit out of this And I import the whole CSV again, maybe after deleting the data entirely. All right. So, how do I get rid of all of the data? Well, if you want to delete from favorites for real now, enter. Select star from favorites. We can confirm that that was a bad idea. There's literally no data in the database anymore, but we can certainly restore from our actual CSV. So in short, we've got select, we've got insert, we've got update, we've got delete, we've seen create, albeit automatically generated by SQLite 3. Maybe we'll see drop. And actually, we can see drop now. So recall that if I do dots schema, I can see all of the tables in this here database. If I do drop table favorites semicolon, and now again dot schema, now there is nothing in this database at all. So that's an even worse command to run unless you know and intend what you're doing. Questions then on these CRUD operations creating, reading, updating, deleting. Yeah, here first. &gt;&gt; Why do you not do quotation marks around null? So null is a special symbol and if you put quotation marks around it, you would literally be looking for the value null l that maybe was the name of a language or the name of a problem or something literally in the CSV. We are looking for the absence of that data altogether. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Really good question. Is it's so easy to destroy data like this. Are people actively backing up their data? Short answer, yes, absolutely. Like all of CS50's web apps and the like are automatically backed up on some schedule. Even then, we have to decide what that schedule is. And if it's daily, for instance, nightly, we could lose up to like 23 hours 59 minutes of data. In some case maybe companies would therefore version their data more tightly like every 5 minutes every minute although that's going to consume a lot more space but there already is this theme of trade-off certainly in computing um you can also implement forms of access control so SQLite is lightweight it has no notion of usernames or passwords if you have access to the data you can touch everything but in the real world with uh commercial and open source software like uh Oracle and SQL server and Postgress and MySQL you actually have usernames and passwords and specific permissions so you can give users in turns the ability to select data but not update or delete or insert data or any combination thereof. So there are defenses other questions on these here CRUD commands. Okay, let's go ahead and play with some real world data. So many of you might be familiar with IMDb, the internet movie database, which is a great repository of data for movies and also TV shows and actors and the like. And within IMDb's website, you can actually download uh TSV files, tab separated values of files that contain a lot of the data from that their website. So we went ahead and did this. We then converted that TSV data into a whole bunch of SQL tables so that we can begin to play with it uh in the context of TV shows. However, let's start first with a question about how you could go about modeling data for TV shows themselves. So for instance in advance I also uh created a few different spreadsheets that just allowed me to play with how I might model data real world data at that. So the office is a very popular uh TV show. The US version here is uh the US version here starred Steve Carell and others. So if I think about how IMDb or maybe just even little old me with a spreadsheet might keep track of who starred in what TV show. Well, I might just use a Google sheet like this and in the first column have a title column where this is the title of the show, like The Office. And then if it stars one person, I would put Steve Carell in the next column. But if there was a second star, I might put Rain Wilson or John or Jenna or BJ Novak here, column by column by column. And I could just keep adding show after show after show after show, one row per show, and then however many stars that are in there. What might you not like about the design of this data, though? or what might start to look odd. &gt;&gt; Yeah, it's a little weird that we have star star star. Just this repetition has tended to be bad. Anytime we're copying and pasting should rub you the wrong way. Other observations about it too? &gt;&gt; Yeah. At the moment I've got 1 2 3 four five stars and there's certainly TV shows with fewer TV stars and more and so okay I can add more columns. I can just keep saying star, star, star, but then it's going to be a very ragged data set, very sparse data set where there's going to be a lot of blank cells for shows that have small casts, but then a lot of columns for shows that have large casts. So, it just feels like this should be rubbing you the wrong way. It just feels like it's going to get messy, especially as the number of stars, let alone shows, gets larger. All right. Well, another version of this uh data set that I put together is this instead. So, I didn't like the fact that I was going to have an arbitrary number of columns based on the specific show in question. So, here I scaled back and I just have a single column for title as before, but now a single column for star. And I decided that if a TV show has multiple stars, well, I just put each of the stars names and then to the left of them specify the show that they're in. seems to be a little better and that I've solved some of the redundancy problem, but I've kind of just kind of like covered up the hole in a leaky hose and now another leak sprung up here, which is to say there's still a bad design. What's bad here? &gt;&gt; yeah, now I've got the office, the office, the office, the office, the office. And that too feels like I'm wasting space. If I manually type this in, odds are eventually I'm going to screw up and one of these is going to be misspelled, which is going to break something somehow. So, this two doesn't feel quite ideal. So the third and final version I whipped up to model this data which is going to lead us to a similar design in an actual database looks a little more arcane but is the right way at least academically to do things and we'll see technologically too this is going to be a big game. So here I now have a spreadsheet with three separate sheets. One is called shows which is selected at the moment. Another is called people which is not selected yet and the third of which is called stars. What am I doing here? Well, notice that in the show sheet, I've still got the title column, but I've decided to give the office a unique ID. Much like a Harvard student has a unique ID number, much like an employee in a company probably has a unique employee ID. Similarly, have I given the office a unique identifier that happens to be the same as it is in IMDb. Meanwhile, for all of the people that exist in the world of TV shows, for instance, these five folks, I have their names as well as unique IDs for them. and those integers are unique to the people and no connection per se to the show ids just yet. But the third and final sheet I've whipped up is going to be a sort of cross referencing sheet that allows me to associate shows with people. And at a glance, this looks the most arcane of the three because it's just numbers. It's just integers. But if you recall from a moment ago that the office's unique ID was 386676. Well, that's how we associated that show with this person which happens to be Steve Carell and so forth. Now, at a glance, not very useful to me, the human unless I do some fancy spreadsheet stuff like VLOOKUPs, a familiar, the like, but this is a stepping stone to how proper databases do actually store data. What I have done here is normalize the data by eliminating all redundancies except for maximally some redundant integers. And why is that? Well, integers, at least we know from our days in C, are going to be a finite length. It's going to be 32 bits, maybe 64 bits, but it's always going to be the same number of bits. And that's nice because anytime you have a fixed number of bits, it lends itself to storing things nicely in an array or doing binary search because everything is a predictable distance apart as opposed to strings like Steve Carell or John Krinski or the names might vary in length. These IDs for the title of the show and these IDs for the persons are not going to vary in length because they're all just integers. But of course, this spreadsheet now much less useful because if I want to figure out who is in the office, well, first I have to figure out what show this is, then I have to figure out what uh person this is and this is and this is but that's where SQL is again going to swoop in and allow us to solve this problem. And indeed SQL is one of the most common ways that web applications today, mobile applications today store any amount of data at scale. They are most likely not using simple CSV files. they are using SQL light or MySQL or Postgress or Oracle or other commercial and open source incarnations of SQL databases and odds are IMDb might be using the same as well. All right, so let's go ahead and do this. I have created in advance a file called shows db that contains hundreds of thousands of rows from TV shows and TV stars and other data from IMDb itself. And in a moment we'll see a database that if drawn as a picture looks a little something like this. There is going to be a people table. There's going to be a shows table. There's going to be a stars table that somehow links the two. There's also going to be a writer table and a ratings table and a genres table. So overnight this sort of escalated quickly from just favorites which was a single table to now a real world data set that has six tables. But here is the relational in relational databases as these arrows are meant to imply. Right now, there are relationships across these several tables. Case in point, here is people here. And we'll see in a moment that a person in the IMDb world has an ID number, a name, and a year of birth. A show in the IMDb world has a unique ID, a title, the year it debuted, and a total number of episode. But there's no mention of people and shows. There's no mention of shows and people. But per the arrows, there's going to be this third table here, stars, that somehow links show ids with person IDs. And this is where relational databases get really powerful because you can solve all of those redundancy concerns and actually enable yourself to select data much more quickly instead. But let's focus on something simple first. Let's focus just on the shows table, which pictorially might look a little something like this. So, in just a moment, I'm going to go ahead and reopen VS Code, and I'm going to open up instead of favorites. DB, I'm going to go ahead and open up uh a file called shows.db, which again, I arrived with in advance. So, if I open up with SQLite 3 shows db and hit enter, I'm back at a SQL prompt. Let me go ahead and type schema shows just to show you what command created this here table. And it got a little more interesting already. Notice that the table is called shows and it's got 1 2 3 four columns. The an ID for each show, a title for each show, the year it debuted for each show, and the number of episodes. There's also clearly some mention of types and some other keywords that we haven't yet talked about. But let's focus now first on just what the data is. The best way to wrap your mind around a new data set if someone hands you a SQL uh database or you've imported a CSV into a SQL database is just select some data. So select star from shows semicolon. That's a lot of data flying across the screen. It's not very easy to see because some of the show names are apparently crazy long and so it's wrapping, but it's still going and going and going. I'm going to hit control C to interrupt it. C as uh with our terminals in general is your friend. Let's run that same command, but just limit it to the first 10 shows. So, there are the first 10 shows in the IMDb database of TV shows. So, we've got 10 rows in this data set going back to it looks like the 1970s is roughly where their data set starts. All right. So here's the data we have in here. Well, how much is there? Well, let's go ahead and check. So, select count star from shows semicolon. And now we're talking. There's 250,87 shows in this database. And if I do the same for people, select count star from people semicolon. Looks like there are 74,315 TV stars associated with this year data set. So here too the data is much more interesting and much more representative of real world data. All right. How about the ratings? IMDb if unfamiliar is also a place where you could go to check the ratings from users as to whether something is good uh show a good show a bad show or anything in between. So let's do dots schema ratings and I'll see that yeah there's this table called ratings that as we saw briefly on the screen there's a show id and then a rating and then the total number of votes that contributed there too and again some data types and other syntax that we'll get to before long but let me go ahead and just do select star from ratings limit 10 just to get a sense of what the data is. That's now what the data looks like in that table. So to a human at a glance, not that useful because you don't know what those show ids are. But in a moment, we're going to see how we can reconstitute this data by linking these tables together by way of those ids and actually get answers to questions. So among other things, a SQL database or a relational database more generally supports onetoone relationships whereby a row in one table can map to a one row in another table. So it's this is in contrast to one to many for instance. So one one means one row over here somehow relates to one row over here. Again the relational in relational database. Uh how might we go about uh seeing this? Well first here's a tour of the data types that SQL light supports. Uh whereas in C we had a somewhat similar list and in Python that list went away at least with regard to explicit types in SQL we're back to when creating our tables explicitly stating what the types of those uh columns are. So you have integers, you have numeric, which is more of a catch-all for things like times and dates and other useful real world data. You have real numbers which are like floats with decimal points. You have text which we've seen already. And then you have blobs which is a great name which stands for binary large objects. You can actually store raw zeros and ones like files in the database. Generally that's frowned upon to store files. But there's certain times where you do want to store binary data and not pure text. That's it for SQL light. There are only these five types. in uh other commercial and open- source SQL databases like Oracle and MySQL and Postgress and the same names I keep rattling off, you have even more data types than these. So that's among the additional features you get by using other databases as well. There's a few keywords though that are worth noting in SQL. You can specifically say when creating a table that this column cannot be null. If you don't want timestamp for instance to ever allow for null values, you can literally specify when creating that table, this column cannot be null. And if I try to insert data into that table with a null value as by not providing a timestamp, the insertion will fail. And so here's where things are different from just writing Python code or certainly using a spreadsheet. You can actually have built-in defenses so that you and no one else messes up your data by inserting bogus or blank data accidentally. You can further say that things must be unique. So every element, every cell in a column must be unique to ensure that you can't accidentally put two things with the same ID. Two Harvard ids, two employee ids that are duplicates. You can avoid that all together. But more importantly, relational databases support these two concepts, primary keys and foreign keys. And this is where the magic really starts to happen. A primary key is the unique identifier for a table. It is the column of values that uniquely identify every row. So it's probably going to be the show ID, the person ID, the Harvard ID, the employee ID. Anytime you have a value, often numeric, often integral, that uniquely identifies rows, you simply call that a primary key. When that same ID appears in another table for cross referencing purposes, you refer to it instead as a foreign key because that same key is over there in another table, thus foreign. But they refer to one and the same things in the context of the table in which it's defined. It's primary. If it appears in some other table, it is now considered foreign. All right. So, how can we make use of this? Well, let me go ahead and propose that we execute a few SQL commands as follows. If I wanted to start asking questions about ratings, I could do something like this. Select star from ratings where the rating is maybe a good show. So, let's call it 6.0 or higher. But let's just limit this to the top 10 shows that meet that threshold. Enter. So here I now have a temporary table that gives me three columns from the ratings table. Show ID, which is a for the moment useless identifier because I don't know what show it corresponds to, but the rating value and the number of votes that contributed there too. Well, how might I actually get to the shows that are actually highly rated at 6.0 or higher? Well, I don't need to select star. If all I care about is these top 10, I can whittle this same command down to just selecting the ratings. And now or sorry uh sorry, not the ratings, I can whittle this uh this table down to just selecting the show ids. So this is the answer to the question. What are the top 10 TV shows whose ratings are 6.0 or higher? Well, from the table, these are the first 10 that come back. How do I now select the shows that correspond to these values? Here's where things can be done a few different ways. I could select everything I know from the shows table where the ID of the show is in the following set. I'm going to do a parenthesis and then just for readability, I'm going to hit enter. The dot dot dot and angle bracket just means I'm continuing my thought. It's not executing the command yet. What is the query I now want to run? Well, it's going to be a nested query. I can now do the same thing as before. Select the show id from the ratings table where the rating is really good greater than or equal to 6.0. But let's then limit the total number of queries to just 10. So here just like in sort of grade school math we have parenthesis. So the first thing that's going to be executed is the thing inside parenthesis. So this is going to get me every show ID from the ratings table that has a really good rating of 6.0 or higher. That's going to return to me a column of values. I'm then going to say select star from the shows table where the ID of the show is in that list of values but only show me 10 of those is what I'm asking here. So what I should now see is much more useful data namely the 10 shows that are highly rated. Enter. And indeed I get back these 10 shows all of whose ratings are indeed quite a bit higher. If I want to only care about the title that too I can do. So let's do this again. Instead of selecting star, let's select title from shows where the ID of the show is in the following parenthetical. Select show ID from ratings where the rating is greater than or equal to 6.0. Close my parenthesis. Limit to 10. Enter. And I see the exact same thing, but just the nail being hit on the head. Just give me the titles of those top several shows. Of course, I might want to might be able to do this differently. In other words, here's the top 10 titles. Well, what are the ratings? Like, that's why you go to IMDb or Rotten Tomatoes or the like. You want to see the actual ratings, not the titles or the ratings. Well, it turns out we're going to need another technique to do that. Namely, an ability to join two tables. And in fact, just as a teaser for this, if we want to start playing around with some real data, here might be, for instance, excerpts from two tables. Here's the shows table at left. Here's the ratings table at right or a subset thereof. If I want to figure out what the rating is for a given show, wouldn't it be nice if I could somehow like line these two tables up together such that just like the tips of my finger, I line up this value with its corresponding value over here, a cross reference of sorts. Well, just for the sake of discussion, let me just kind of visually flip this around. Though that does nothing technically underneath the hood. Let me just scooch them together now after highlighting the common values. demonstrate that. Well, wouldn't it be nice to take the shows table and join it with the ratings table in such a way that those IDs all line up? And we're going to have the ability to do just this. Um, this is a lot already, and this isn't the sort of cliffhanger I'd wanted to end on cuz who cares about joins, but it's going to be cool. But let's take our 10-minute Halloween candy break and come back in 10 for the next. All right, we are back. So, recall where we left off was essentially here. We had these two tables. the shows table at left and the ratings table at right. And the motivation here was like how do we actually associate shows with their respective ratings because the ratings of course are not in the shows table. As an aside they could be and in fact because this is meant to demonstrate a onetoone relationship whereby every show has one rating. We could have just put the rating and the number of votes into the shows table but we chose not to because uh IMDb actually stores their ratings as a separate TSV file. And so what we tried to do for par with that is only import into a ratings table the very TSV file that we had downloaded from them. But that too would be a solution there too. So at this point in the story we've got the shows table here. We've got the ratings table over here. We've noticed that there are commonalities. There are show ids that appear in both tables. And in fact to use some of the new vernacular this is the primary key. The ID column here. This is that same value but in this context it's known as a foreign key because it's in some other table. But that's going to be how we link these two things together. So, how do we select for not just The Office, but maybe every TV show its respective rating? Well, let's go back to VS Code and at my SQL light prompt, let me go ahead and do this. Select star from the shows table. But let's go ahead and join the shows table with the ratings table. How do I want to join these two tables together? We'll do so on the shows tables ID column being equal to the ratings tables show id column and then go ahead and filter the results in the following way where the rating we care about should still be greater than or equal to 6.0 and let's only limit this to the top 10 results. So, it's a bit more of a mouthful, but what I'm doing is selecting everything from the result of joining shows and ratings on this column with this column. And the rest of the predicate is as before. So, join is going to do literally that join these two tables as I have prescribed. When I go ahead here and hit enter, now that I have my semicolon, I get back a complete table containing everything from the shows table, everything from the ratings table with those unique identifiers lined up. Indeed, if you look at the primary key over here, the ID column, 62614 dot dot dot. Over here, you have show ID, which came from the ratings table, 62614 dot dot dot. So, we've taken two tables and really joined them together, but we're only seeing a subset because I limited it to 10 such rows. Now, of course, most of this data doesn't seem very interesting if my whole goal is just to tell me what the ratings are for these shows. Well, let's go ahead and in code achieve this sort of result. Let's literally join these tables together. Let's get rid of the redundancy all together. And then really, let's whittle it down to just a title column and a rating column. So, how do we do that? Well, in code, I'm going to go ahead and select more specifically the title of every show and the rating of every show from the shows table, but I'm going to join it with the ratings table on shows doid equaling ratings.show id. And as before, I'm going to limit it to where rating is greater than or equal to 6.0 and 10 such results. Enter. And now I have a nice simple temporary table that in one column has the titles of these shows and in the right hand side has the ratings of the shows. Even though those two data sets were completely separate in two separate tables. Indeed, if we think back to where this data came from, what we've been focusing on is the shows table and we've joined it with the ratings table. Here's the primary key for shows. Here's the foreign key for ratings. And by convention, notice that we've adopted a certain uh a certain approach. Anything that's called ID here implies that it's a primary key. Anything that's something underscore ID implies that it's a foreign key. And the convention we adopted which is actually quite common is if the table is called shows plural, we call the foreign key show singular ID. Different companies, different communities will have different practices, but we've been consistent across all of these tables with our underscore and lowercase conventions. Yeah. I'm just curious on how these IDs all generate and relate to each other properly. &gt;&gt; Really good question. How do all these IDs generate and relate to each other properly? Well, in our case, I have no idea. The Internet Movie Database people came up with these unique identifiers somehow and we simply in incorporated them into our data set. In practice, what they probably did and what you will do for instance in future problem sets when generating data is you just assign an arbitrary integer starting at one then two then three then four then five and you just let it auto increment all the way up and you let the database ensure that you never have duplicate &gt;&gt; Just to clarify for the dot dot dot and arrow symbol that's only to like make it look better, right? like there's no like &gt;&gt; correct the dot dot dot in uh uh angled bracket that you keep seeing is just the continuation prompt which means I have prematurely hit enter deliberately because I want to move everything onto the next line so it doesn't wrap ugly onto multiple lines it is not SQL syntax it's specific to SQL light 3 and it's just a continuation of the thought that's all good good observation yeah &gt;&gt; when you limit it to 10 showing how Good question. When you limit something to 10, for instance, which ones do you get? You just get literally the first 10 rows from the table. And so it will typically be ordered if you don't use the order by uh keywords uh in the same order from which it came from those tables. And so you're just seeing arbitrarily the first 10 that match that predicate, which is rating greater than or equal to six. We have not ordered it by rating. So I'm not getting like the 10.0 shows necessarily. I'm just getting the first 10 shows that are greater than six. And the point for that is just I want it to fit on the screen rather than see hundreds of thousands of answers. Okay. So you might recall now that there were certainly other tables besides these. So let's see in the broader scheme, not just shows and ratings, but let's focus on genres. If only because genres is interesting because it's no longer a onetoone relationship because of course why would a show have multiple ratings. It sort of has its own rating. But a show could certainly belong to multiple genres. You could imagine a show being a comedy and a drama or a musical and a comedy or any other number of combinations of one or more genres. And so the way we've chosen to implement that here too is with a separate table called genres which is not perfect. There's going to be some redundancies here that we have not yet eliminated. But it does indicate that we can go ahead and have multiple such values associated with each and every show. So how do we get there? Let's focus just on this. Let's go back in just a moment to VS Code and let's take a look at the schema for now genres. In genres, we have the following. A table called genres which got has two columns. A show ID which is an integer that cannot be null and a genre which is text which is also not be null. And now for the first time, let's actually use some of the vernacular we've introduced. Here we have an example explicitly in SQL that specifies when creating this table that it shall the show id column shall be a foreign key that references the shows tables ID column. And admittedly I think the syntax for creating tables is a bit of a mouthful even. I often have to read uh to look it up to remember the order of everything. But here we have the columns listed first and then these key constraints. Foreign key referencing this primary key over here. And in fact, let's rewind to look at the shows table now to see from which uh from whence we came. So if I do do schema of shows, which we've done before, but waved our hand at it, then we'll indeed see that shows has a primary key called ID, which is an integer. How do I know that? Because the very last thing in the parenthesis says that the ID column in this table is a primary key. Then we see that uh the title is text can't be null. The year is numeric, which again I described as sort of a catchall for other real world numeric types that aren't purely integers or uh real numbers per se. Episodes is an integer. Both of those apparently can be null because maybe IMDb just doesn't have that data for some older shows, but primary key is indeed specified here. And just for thoroughess, let me distinguish now genres from ratings. If I do schema ratings again, which we waved our hand at earlier, very similar in spirit to genres in that there's an ID column that somehow references the shows table and then some other column here, genre. In this case, we had ratings and votes, which were reals and integers respectively. But notice this one additional constraint here. I deliberately specified that show ID in the ratings table must be unique. That is to say, you cannot have the same show ID more than once in the ratings table. Why? Because I indeed wanted a onetoone relationship. And it would not be one one if there were multiple show ids that correspond to one uh ID in the shows table itself. But genres, we're going to allow that it's uh can be duplicates. And so we don't have mention of unique there. All right. So where does this get us? Well, let me go back into uh my terminal here after clearing all of that. And let's go ahead and just see the data to wrap our mind around it a little more uh real. So select star from genres limit 10 just to see the the first 10. All right. So it looks like there's some comedies, adventures, comedies, family, action, sci-fi, and so forth. Well, let's go ahead and look up just one show's information. In fact, I saw this number, this ID before. How about let's just look up this show. What is this adventure show? Uh 63881. So select star from shows where ID equals 63881 semicolon. Okay. So this is the show called Catweel from 1970 which had 26 episodes in total and that was indeed its unique identifier. So that's all fine and good if I want to see something about that specific show. But as before, how do I associate Cat Weasel in this case with all of its genres? Well, instead of it being a onetoone relationship necessarily, maybe Cat Weasel is not just an adventure. Maybe it's also a comedy and a family show. And indeed, if I go back to the results just now, you'll see that 68111 indeed lines up with adventure, comedy, and family. And then the ID changes to be about some other show. So, how do I select these three answers to the question, what genre is Cat Weasel? Well, for this, we need to talk about one to many relationships and how we can get those back. Well, let's go ahead and do this now in my terminal. Let me go ahead and say uh the following. Select genre from the genres table where the show ID equals just that 63881, which I'm now starting to memorize, adventure, comedy, and family. So, that's the answer to the question, but this certainly isn't the best way to do this where you have to like look up the unique ID for the show you care about, then copy paste it or memorize and type it out into this query just to get the genres. It would be nice to just ask all of this in one breath. Well, we can do this even though it's a bit more verbose. I'm going to instead this time say select genre from genres where the show id I care about equals and now I'm just going to hit enter so as to move this nested query inside of parenthesis and I'm going to say well I don't know off the top of my head what the unique ID is for catw weasel but I can ask the database select the ID from the shows table where the title of the show equals cat weasel and this now obviates the need for me to memorize or copy paste that unique ID I'll hit enter and close my parenthesis. Uh, I'm going to go ahead then and say uh, semicolon enter. And now I get back the exact same answers, but without having to know or care about these numeric values. And that's kind of the point here. Even though the database itself, the actual IMDb website needs to use these unique identifiers to store everything in the database, we humans, generally speaking, should not know or care what these identifiers are. They're just meant to implement this notion of relationships, these cross references. And so here we see an example where you can ask the question you care about without worrying about any of the underlying numbers or even seeing them as a result. All right. Well, what's really how else might we go about do doing this? Well, let me propose that we join these two tables and ask the question in a slightly different way. So, here's an excerpt from the shows table. Here's an excerpt from the genres table. And clearly we could do something like we did before for ratings where we could line these two up and kind of join them together. Just for the sake of discussion, let me flip these columns around though that has no technical significance. And now we can clearly see 63881 appears there and here. The difference though because now this is a one to many relationship is that it's not quite as simple as just joining the rows together. I need to kind of join it here and here and here. And the database can do this for you albeit at some cost in redundancy. So what I'm going to observe is that these ids are all the same. Primary key in this context, foreign key in this context. Well, I'm going to start to join them together here, but it's not possible to return a temporary table that's just outright missing data. You have to get the same number of rows and columns everywhere in a grid. So what the database is going to do if I do join these two tables together and they are participating in a one to many relationship with each other, it's going to duplicate the data that's necessary to sort of make every row look the same. Downside is it might indeed be taking up some additional space unless the database is smart and somehow using pointers or something like that underneath the hood to avoid the redundancy. But for my purposes, this is actually quite nice because if I iterate over these rows, as I could in Python, as we'll eventually see, it's just nice to have all the data you care about in each and every row, even though it's clearly redundant. But the data is not being stored redundantly in the data. It's just temporarily being presented to me with this here, redundancy. So, what do I really want to have happen? Well, I really care about actually joining these two tables together and ultimately just getting back the title and the genre respectively. So, let me go ahead and my VS code here and do select title and genre from the shows table. But let's join it this time on the genres table on shows ID equaling genres.show id. So that's quite the same as with ratings where uh the ID equals just for time sake 63881 which I know is Catweasel but I could certainly use a nested query if I wanted to do this as before. Enter. And I get back Catweel's three genres. And if I were to loop over this data in some kind of like Python code, I would have access to the title and genre with each iteration, which I claim is useful. But if I don't care about that and I just really want to select the genres, I can do this with joins too. Let me just select the genre from shows joining it on genres on shows ID equaling genres. ID where the ID is catw weasel 63881. And now I get back just that answer. So in short, what have we just seen? One, you can join two tables together and whittle down the temporary table to just the data you care about. Or if you prefer, and if I scroll back up in my history here, you could take a fundamentally different approach but still get the same answer of simply using a nested query. I would say as you learn SQL for the first time, I think it's quite often easier to just do multiple nested queries because you sort of work your way uh from the inside out, taking sort of baby steps to the problem. If the problem in question is give me all of the genres for a specific TV show, well, first I need to know because I know how the data is laid out in the database. I need to know the unique ID of the show I care about. Fine, that's pretty straightforward and hence this inner query. Once you have that, you can parenthesize it and on the outside now you can select the question to which you really want the answer, which is what is the genre that lines up with that show ID one or more times. So in short, nested queries probably easier and certainly when learning it for the first time, but quite powerful are these join queries where this achieves the exact same result. Especially if I were to generalize away the 63881 and do a nested query here. Sometimes you want join, sometimes nested queries suffice. &gt;&gt; How does SQL do all these searches? &gt;&gt; Oh my goodness. How does SQL do all of these searches? What's its time complexity? We'll talk about that toward the end of today. In the most naive implementation, SQL is essentially just doing linear search from the top of the table all the way to the bottom. However, we as the programmers are going to have the ability to optimize those queries so that the database can actually do something closer to binary search and in general we'll be able to achieve much better performance as a result. A really good question. All right, let's go back to the big uh flowchart of this data set. We've looked now at shows and ratings. We've looked at shows and genres. Let's now focus on the juiciest part like the part that associates shows with people. That is who stars in what. Thinking back now to what I was mocking up in the Google sheet at the very start whereby I wanted to somehow be able to associate the office with Steve Carell and John Krinski and Jenna Fischer and so forth. The right way and the right way I claim is going to be like this. Here's my people table which has a primary key of ID and then the name of each person and their birth year if known. Then we have the shows table which we keep talking about which again has a primary key, a title and year and episodes thereof. And then the stars table is somewhat new now because now when it comes to people starring in TV shows we have a third and final type of relationship, a many to many relationship. Why? Because it's certainly the case that one person can be in multiple shows. And it's certainly the case that some shows have multiple people hence many to many. So this is the third and final relationship where just to recap ratings was one one genres was one to many and now stars is going to be many to many. All right let's dive in. So these queries will be a bit more verbose but again they're going to follow this principle of sort of taking baby steps to the answer we care about. Let me go back into VS Code here and suppose I want to find out everything about the office that we know. So, select star from shows where title equals quote unquote the office semicolon. Well, that's interesting. There's a whole bunch of offices. There was the UK version. There's a few other variants, but the one we're probably talking about with these stars is the one that started in 2005 with 188 episodes. That's the US version in fact. So, let me be a little more precise. Let me select everything I know from the stars from the shows table where the title equals office and year equals 2005. so we don't confuse our answers with the other versions of the office. Now, how do I go about selecting all of the people who starred in that version of The Office? Well, I already have an answer to the question of what is the ID of that version of The Office because it's right there in front of me. And in fact, I can narrow my query more precisely. Let's just select the ID from the shows table where the title is the office and the year is 2005. 386676. Now, I could lazily just copy paste that or memorize it, but we're going to do this query more dynamically. I want to next though figure out who is in that show. So, if I have a show ID, I want to figure out who's in it. But how do I get to the people and the names of those people? I have to logically go through this cross referencing of the stars table. So, here's where this query is going to be a bit meteor than the past ones and that we need to do a bit more work than before. All right. Well, what's the work I need to do? Let me go ahead now and do the following. Select all of the person IDs that are associated with this show id. So, how do I do that? Select person ID from the stars table where the show ID equals and I could lazily copy paste this, but let's avoid that. Where the show ID equals, let me now in parenthesis do this. select ID from shows where title equals quote unquote the office and year equals 2005 and then close my parenthesis semicolon. So what am I doing? I'm taking a second baby step if you will. The innermost query inside the parenthesis is just again dynamically figuring out the unique ID of the office I care about. The outer query is now figuring out all of the person IDs associated with that show as per the stars table. And the stars table has only two columns. Show id and person ID. That's how the linkage is done just with those integers. Enter. I now have a column of person IDs that are starring in that version of the office. So how do I take this one final step if I really want to care about their names and not their random person IDs? Well, I could go ahead and select the name from the people table where that person's ID is in the following set. So when I'm dealing with a single value, I just use equals for equality. But when I'm dealing with a whole result set, a whole column of answers, I use the preposition in in SQL instead. So where the person's ID is in the following data set. Well, let's do the same query as before. Select all the person IDs from the stars table where the show ID I care about equals because there's only one show I care about. I'm going to further parenthesize this. Select ID from shows where title equals quote unquote the office and year equals 2005. Uh, enter. I'll close my parenthesis. Enter. I'll close my parenthesis. Semicolon. And now from the outside in, I've taken three baby steps. The innermost one just gets me the show ID. The second one in the middle gets me all of the related person IDs. And the last one is really the final flourish. Get me all of the names of these people based on those IDs. Enter. And now we see all of the stars in this show beyond even the subset that we've been playing with visually on the screen. Okay, that's a lot. Let me pause here and see if there's any questions. Yeah, &gt;&gt; this outermost query is what gives me the names. But that query needs to know the ID of the person who name whose name you want. So the middle query actually gets all of those person IDs. But to get those person IDs, I need to know the show id. So the innermost query, this one gets me the show ID of the office All right. So at the risk of overwhelming, here are other ways you can solve the same problem. But I do claim that the nested selects is probably conceptually and pragmatically the easiest way. But let's also solve this problem by doing a few joins just so you've seen it. Actually, before we uh do a join, let's let's flip the question around first. How about all of the shows that Steve Carell has starred in besides The Office? So, let me select everything I know from the people table where the name of the person equals quote unquote Steve Carell semicolon. All right, there seems to be only one Steve Carell in IMDb born in 1962. That's all nice and good. What I really care about is his ID. So, I'm going to uh narrow this down to selecting just his ID. Now, I could memorize or copy paste 136797, but don't need to do that. Let's just use this as part of a nested query. Let's now select all of the show ids from the stars table that are somehow related to Steve Carell's person ID. So where person ID equals and I could copy paste this but that's generally frowned upon. So let's not do that. Let's just set it equal to a nested query where I do the same thing as before. Select ID from people where name equals Steve Carell. Then close my parenthesis semicolon. All right. He's been in a lot of TV shows, but this is not useful because I have no idea what all of these integers are. So, the final flourish, select the title from the shows table where the ID of the shows I care about is somehow in this parenthetical list. Well, what's that parenthetical list? Well, select the show ID from stars where the person ID equals Steve Carell's. What is his ID? Well, I didn't memorize it. So, I'm going to select ID from people where the name of the person I care about is Steve Carell, quote unquote. Close these par this parenthesis. Close this parenthesis. Semicolon. Enter. And now I see all of Steve Carell shows. And even though we're doing this in a black and white command line environment, think about what the actual IMDb is doing with both of these queries. If you go to IMDb.com and search for Steve Carell, even though there's going to be a lot of colors and pretty pictures and whatnot, you'll probably get in some form a list of all of Steve Carell shows. Or if you search for The Office, you'll get a list in some form of all of the stars there in. I could claim then that if imdb.com is using SQL, which it very likely is, but not necessarily, they are executing queries just like we did. And when you type into the search box something like the office or Steve Carell, they're essentially just copy pasting your user input into a prefabbed SQL query that they wrote in advance so as to get you the answers that you actually care about. So this is how a lot of today's websites and mobile apps are actually working. The programmer comes up with sort of the template for the queries you might ask and then you supply the actual data you're searching for. All right, how about now as promised a couple of other ways to implement these many to many relationships uh based queries but by using joins. If I know I need to involve the shows table, the people table and the stars table, I can actually do this all in one breath without any nested queries. Select for me the title from the shows table. But let's join that on the stars table on shows do ID equaling stars dot show id. Uh but let's additionally join the shows table on the following. Let's join it on people on stars.person id equaling people id. In other words, if you know conceptually that you've got these three tables, you want to somehow combine them without using nested selects. just figure out how to line them all up. So again, I'm selecting from the shows table, but I'm joining it with the stars table by lining up the shows tables primary key with the stars tables foreign key. And I'm lining it up with the people table by lining up the stars tables foreign key with the people tables primary key. I'm just kind of logically connecting all of the things I know to be related. And lastly, let's just say where the name I care about equals quote unquote Steve Carell semicolon. It's a little slower for now. And this speaks to the question that was asked earlier. How is the database doing this? Well, slowly, apparently by default, unless we optimize it, I got back essentially the same results. Although there is some duplication as a result uh which alludes to the um filling in blank of blanks that I alluded to earlier. But let me show you one other technique too. But again, I would encourage you certainly for problem set seven to focus on nested queries when you can because they're a little conceptually simpler. If I care about the titles of those shows, I could select title from the shows table and the stars table and the people table all at once in one breath. But I want to do so where the shows tables primary key equals the stars tables foreign key. uh and the people tables primary key equals the stars tables foreign key and the name I care about is Steve Carell. In other words, this is just a third way to express the exact same idea by doing implicit joins by selecting data clearly from all three tables as per this commaepparated list of table names, but telling the database with your predicate, the wear clause, how you want to line all of those tables up. If I hit enter here, cross my fingers, I should get back the same results as well, albeit with duplication, which I didn't see in the nested queries. Okay, that too was a mouthful. Let me pause here for questions. &gt;&gt; to do that, &gt;&gt; correct? In order to do this, you as the programmer must know the internal structure of the database, which is quite often the case, whether you created the database yourself or you work with a colleague who designed the schema for the database. That said, I think your question is hinting at sort of the challenge like I really need to know the underlying implementation details when really all I care about is the answers to my questions. In code quite oftenly nowadays um there are object relational mappings whereby you can use OMS for short whereby you can use libraries that they understand the underlying database schema. You as the programmer do not need to because it figures out how to do all of the joins for you. So for CS50 we're introducing everyone to the bottom up understanding of how these joins work. But that too can be easily automated because of those schemas. Yeah. Just notice when you're typing across you indent is indentation important in SQL. &gt;&gt; Good question. Is indentation in SQL important? Technically no. But like with any of the languages we've talked about thus far, it is good for the humans and certainly good for the students in a context like this. Python of the languages we looked at is the most rigorous whereby indentation very much matters and the consistency thereof. SQL I'm just trying to pretty print things to make it easy to gro visually. All right. So those last two queries were arguably kind of slow. Whereas with my nested queries, I actually got lucky and just boom, I got the answer quite quickly. Those joins seem to be a step backwards and that it was taking more time to get back the same data that I actually cared about. But that's something we can actually chip away at. It turns out that one of the other values of a relational database visa v something like a spreadsheet is that you can actually tell the database in advance how to optimize for certain queries. This is not the case for spreadsheets. If you have a lot of data in Google spreadsheets or Microsoft Excel or Apple Numbers, tens of thousands of rows, hundreds of thousands of rows, millions of rows, your computer's going to slow to a crawl. And at some point, those software packages are just going to say, "Sorry, file is too big." And they're certainly not going to be terribly fast at searching the data. But with a SQL database and relational databases more generally, you are as much the architect of it as you are the user of it in this case. And so you can tell the database in advance if you want to optimize for certain queries like select statements. So for instance, let me go back to VS Code here and just for the sake of discussion, let's time how long it takes to find all of the shows whose name is the office. I'm going to use a SQLite command called timer. And I'm going to set it to on. And this is just now going to tell me for every command I run how long it took. I'm going to now select everything from the shows table where the title of the show equals quote unquote the office close quote semicolon enter. And that query took let's say in real terms 0.042 seconds. That's crazy fast. Like it's less than a second. I mean it's truly a split second. So no big deal. But it's a fairly simple query. But I bet we could optimize even this. Now why would you want to optimize even queries that are already pretty fast? Well, if they're very commonly being executed, and I dare say someone going to imdb.com and searching for The Office or any TV show, like that's the common case. People are looking for TV shows, movies, actors, and so forth. It'd be nice to use as little amount of time to answer those questions as possible. Why? One, it makes for happier customers and users because you're getting them the answer faster. Two, it saves you money because presumably if you've spent $1,000 for a server and that server has certain amount of RAM, a certain speed CPU or brain, it can only do so many searches per unit of time, per second, per minute, or the like. So, wouldn't it be nice if all of those searches is faster using less time? So, you can handle not a thousand users at once, but 2,000 users or 5,000 users all with the same hardware. So, there's uh certainly upsides there. Well, how can I go about optimizing a query? Well, I can create my own index. Another use of the create keyword in SQL where I can tell the database to optimize for searches on a specific table and specific columns therein. I say create index and then I come up with a name for the index whatever I want on the name of the table that I want to index and then in parenthesis the columns that I want to optimize for. So what does this mean in real terms? Well, let's go back to VS Code here and let me create an index called for instance title index though the name doesn't matter on the shows table uh using the title column. In other words, tell the database please expedite searches on the shows tables title column. After all, that's what I just searched on. Enter. Now, that took a moment, almost half a second, but that's a table. That's an index that only has to be created once. If I do a lot of updates and deletes, it might actually take a little bit of time over over the course of using the database to maintain that index. But for now, that's a one-time operation, creating the index. But watch what happens now if I scroll up in my history and go to the exact same query as before, which previously took 0.042 seconds, which yes, is fast, but not nearly as fast as the new version, which is 0.001 seconds instead. orders of magnitude faster. So I can handle 4 uh2 times as many users on the same database so to speak than I could have previously just by building this index. So what actually is an index? Well, we come full circle to discussions in like uh week five of the class. So an index in a database is very often created using what's called a B tree. This is not binary tree. A B tree is its own distinct structure that's very similar in spirit in that it's fairly shallow because most of the nodes have children but it doesn't necessarily have two children. It might have more children. And in fact, the more children the nodes have, the sort of higher up you can pull all of the leaf nodes and the shorter you can make the height of the tree. So this is just a generic representation of a B tree. But what this implies is that when I am now searching for titles like the office, the database doesn't have to do the default behavior which is start at the top and use linear search all the way to the bottom. If it has proactively built up an index in memory thanks to my command, it now has a treel like structure storing those titles that allows it to find in some logarithmic time whether it's log base 2 or some other base the same data much more quickly. And that's how we went from 042 to 0.001 second instead in this case here. Questions then on these here indexes? No. All right. Well, let's propose that we can combine some of today's ideas. It turns out that now we're getting to the point in the course where you're not just choosing between this language and another. You're generally using a suite of languages to solve problems. And indeed, in the coming weeks of the class, when we transition to web-based applications, you're going to use a bit of Python, you're going to use a bit of SQL, you're going to use a bit of JavaScript and two other languages called HTML and CSS. You might be using like five different languages at a time just to build one application. Why? Because some of them are better for the job than others. And indeed, that's the ecosystem in which real world software development is done. Well, to make this bridge, we have a version of the CS50 library, recall, for Python, which has functions like get string, even though it's not that useful because it's just like the input function, but get int uh and get float. But also, in the CS50 library for Python, we have a module that specifically makes it easier to use SQL from Python code. After all, wouldn't it be nice if I could get the best of both worlds and implement like an interactive program in Python, but that uses SQL to actually get back data? Or I can build a website that allows people to search for TV shows or TV stars and actually get that data from a database, but use Python to generate the web pages themselves. Well, we have some documentation for this library here, but I'm going to go ahead and use it in real time to show you how much more easily you can solve certain problems by using each tool for what it's good at. So, let's go back to VS Code here. Let me exit out of SQL light and get back to my normal terminal. And let me go ahead and let's say minimize my terminal here. Uh, actually, let's go ahead and open up favorites.py, which is where we left off before. And recall that in the last version of favorites.py, we had simply used a dictionary to go about keeping track of how many of you said Python or C or Scratch. And when I last ran this program with Python of favorites.py, pi. The answer looked like this. Now notice that it's not sorted alphabetically, otherwise C would be first. And it's also not sorted numerically, otherwise C would be second. So it would be nice in Python to maybe exercise some control over this. But I stopped sort of doing that before because it gets very annoying quickly. And by this I mean the following. Let me go back into VS Code here uh and into favorites.py. And if I wanted to sort by uh the counts here, I could do this. Uh, I could change my loop from iterating for favorite in counts to favorite in sorted counts. So, this is actually not too bad thus far. I can actually sort dictionaries pretty readily. So, now if I run this and let me make my terminal a little bit taller so we can see both results. If I run the program now, you'll see that it's sorted alphabetically by key. So apparently when you use the sorted function in Python and pass it a dictionary, you can still iterate over all of the key value pairs in that dictionary, but it's been sorted now by key. So that's nice if that's to be my goal, but maybe that's not really my goal. And here's how alternatively I could sort by value, the 190, the 58, and the 24. I can still use the sorted function, but I need to tell Python to use a key, a sorting key of