the counts dictionaries gets function. Uh, and then if I run it again, I now see it's sorted by value. But darn it, it's now sorted in the opposite order. I see scratch at 24, then 58, then 190. If I want to reverse it, well then I have to go up here and add another named parameter. Reverse equals true. I can run it another time. And now I get the result I care about. Long story short, this is just very annoying to have to use that amount of code to actually answer relatively simple questions. And this is why we did transition for much of today to a declarative language like SQL that just let me select what I care about in that data. So if I again I go back into my database version with SQLite 3 of favorites.db. I'll maximize my terminal window. What did we do before? Well, we can select uh from the database uh select uh let's see favorite comma count star from favorites group by uh favorite semicolon whoops. Oh, sorry. What did we do? We do select language, comma, count, star from favorites, group by favorite. Oh, damn it. What happened? Oh, we deleted it. See, this is why you don't use the delete or drop command. So, I'm not going to demonstrate this again, but recall uh before break that when we last selected this information, we used the group by command to actually group by the language in question and we got back all the counts. But then we were very easily able to reorder things by actually just using order by and then doing something in ascending order or for instance descending order instead. Well, now let's actually combine these worlds of Python and SQL together to write first a program that does just that. But to do this, we're going to need to restore that database. So let's go ahead and do this. Let's remove favorites. DB, which is just a file in my account. Let's go ahead and run uh SQLite 3 of favorites.d DB to create a new version thereof. Let's now go ahead and change my mode as we did earlier in class to CSV. Let's now do import of favorites uh CSV into a table called favorites. And now let's doquit. And when I do ls, okay, now it's back favorites.db in addition to today's other files. Now let me go ahead and run SQLite 3 of favorites. DB. And just as a sanity check, select star from favorites semicolon. There's all of the data back. minus the addition and subtraction that we ourselves made earlier manually. And let's go ahead and in SQL go ahead and do select language, count star from favorites and group by language, but let's order by count star in descending order. And that's one of the last commands we ran with this file. And there is the answer in a single line of code instead of some 17 lines of code plus or minus some white space here. Can we merge now these two ideas? Well, let's see how to do this. Let's go back into favorites.py here and make a new and improved version of it that actually uses SQL and no dictionary, no for loop, no try except or any of this. Instead, let's go ahead and from CS50's own library import a SQL function which will give me access to this functionality. Let's create a variable called DB by convention, but I could call it anything I want and set it equal to CS50SQL function and pass to CS50SQL function the path to the database file I want to open. This is a little weird, but the syntax here is SQLite without the three colon slash favorites. DB. This syntax, otherwise known as a URI, is going to allow us to use the SQL light lang uh uh protocol in order to open up favorites. DB, which is the very file I was just experimenting with manually in my terminal. Here now is how I can execute a SQL query in Python using CS50's library. Now, as an aside, even though this is indeed meant to be a training wheel, CS50's library is just easier to use than a lot of the real world libraries that makes this possible. So because we spend so relatively little time on this, we're still using this training wheel for this. Give me a variable called rows because I want to get back all of the rows from this table that contain those languages and e do db.execute. The only function that's useful in the CS50 library for SQL is this execute function which allows me to write literally a line of SQL like select language count star uh from favorites group by language order by count star uh descending order. Just to make my life easier, I'm going to add that alias trick that we saw before. So as n to change the count to the variable n. And then here I can just do order by n instead. It's a little long, but notice that now I'm using SQL as a string that I'm passing as an argument to this dbexecute function. So at the very end of this, I've got to close my quote, close my parenthesis so as to use one language in effect inside of another. Now assuming I do get back a temporary tables rows with that line of code on line five, let's do this. For each row in rows, go ahead and do the following. Create a variable called language and set it equal to row quote unquote language. Then create another variable called n, for instance, and set it equal to row quote unquote n. And then let's just go ahead and print out language and n respectively. So what does CS50's library do? It returns by design a list of rows. Each of those rows is a dictionary of key value pairs. So when I do for row and rows, this is just iterating over a list of values. And we've done that over the past couple of weeks. Inside of this loop, I'm just creating temporarily two variables, uh, language and n, to show you that each row is indeed a dictionary, which means I can index into it using strings like quote unquote language and quote unquote n because those are the columns that I selected using this query up above. Strictly speaking, I don't even need these variables. I can just get rid of that and a little more succinctly just pass in row bracket language and then row bracket uh n instead. So let me go down to my terminal window here, exit out of SQLite, run Python of favorites.py in this form, enter and I get back it would seem the same exact answer 190 58 and 24 in this case. questions now on this co-mingling of languages. All right, how about one final thing? Once we have the ability to like use Python, now we can in fact make things interactive. So for instance, let me close my terminal temporarily. Let me go ahead and now ask for some user input. So after opening the database, let's do this. Let's ask the human using Python's input function or equivalently CS50's get string function for their favorite TV show and store it in that same variable. Then let's do a SQL query that selects that data. Rows equals db.execute select and let's see how many people selected uh this favorite problem rather not TV show how about favorite problem from our favorites data set. So select count star as n from the favorites database where the problem in question equals well now I need to put the user's input. I don't know what that is yet because they haven't typed it in yet. So, what I'm going to go ahead and do is a placeholder and say favorite close quote and make this whole thing an F string. Then I'm going to go down here and I don't need to iterate because ideally I'm just getting back a single answer. How many people chose this problem as their favorite? So, I'm going to say that uh the row I care about is simply the first row. So, rows is a list. So, rows bracket zero is the first and only row in that list. And then let's go ahead and print out row quote unquote n. Let's see the result here and then see what happens. Let me put some single quotes here and single quotes here. Let me open my terminal. Let me do python of favorites.py and I'll say hello, world. Enter. And as before at the start of class, 42 of you like that. However, this is not not not how you should ever write SQL code in Python. What could go wrong with this code? Nothing went wrong a moment ago, but what could go wrong? Yeah, the user input. How so? &gt;&gt; True. I don't know what those are yet, but we're about to go there. What even more simplistically could go wrong by plugging in the user's input here? Yeah, &gt;&gt; like hello. &gt;&gt; Exactly. If I inputed the other problem we played with, hello, it's me where it was it apostrophe s that if interpolated right here is clearly going to confuse the uh single quotes such that who knows what's going to come back. Now, in the best case, the code might just not work and I'll get some kind of error in on the screen, which is not great for the user because the program is not going to be useful. There's no user friendly error message. But in the worst case, the user could do something incredibly malicious if you are simply blinding blindly trusting user input and plugging their input into a SQL query that you yourself constructed. Why? What if the user types something crazy like the word delete or drop or update or any of those destructive commands that we saw earlier and somehow tricks your code into executing maybe the select but then eventually an additional query like a delete. Maybe they type in a semicolon and then delete or a semicolon and then drop or something like that. This is the biggest threat to taking user input and trusting it in the context of databases. And it's called uh as one of your classmates knows already, what's known as a SQL injection attack. A SQL injection attack is the ability for an adversary or an unknowing user to somehow inject code into your database. A SQL injection attack then might look something like this in the real world. here for instance is like the login screen to github.com. Um they do actually use SQL among other languages underneath the hood I believe not necessarily for this but suppose they did and when logging into github.com you're prompted for your username or email address and then of course your password. Well, what if I know a little something about SQL and suppose for the sake of discussion, GitHub is using SQL light, which they're not using because it's not meant for massive large uh massive data sets like this. But suppose they are. And just to be malicious, I type in my username mailinharbor.edu, but then I use a single quote and then dash dash. Well, the single quote is there, me being an adversary in the story, because maybe I can confuse their code by closing their quotes sooner than they intended. And we haven't talked about this yet, but it turns out that dash in SQL is the comment character. So it's like hash in Python or slash and C. This in SQL means ignore everything to the right. That alone can be used fairly maliciously as follows. Here, for instance, could be the code that GitHub is using underneath the hood, whereby they might have some Python code, and heck, maybe they're using the CS50 library that executes this pre-made query. select star from the users table where the username equals this question mark and the password equals this question mark passing in username and password for instance. Uh but if they are trusting the username and password I typed in and just plugging it right there, they could be vulnerable to indeed a SQL injection attack. For instance, this code we'll soon see is actually the right way to do it. But suppose they were doing it with fstrings like I started to in my version of favorites.py. Same thing. Select star from users. where username equals this username and password equals this password and the little f here means here's a format string. What could go wrong? Well, let me actually paste in the mail at harbor.edu single quote- dash text here. Notice that this single quote and this single quote are meant to surround the username. And same thing for the password there. But watch what happens when I type in my data. Mail at harbor.edu single quote. So this would seem to finish the thought prematurely. and then it says dash dash and so that just means ignore everything else. And so the effect here is essentially to gray out all of that stuff because it's effectively been commented out. So what GitHub ends up doing accidentally in this case is selecting star from users where username is mailon at harbor.edu irrespective of what his password actually is. And if you assume that down here they've got some conditional logic like well if we get back some rows that means that mail is in fact a registered user. Go ahead and log him in. We don't know what the code looks like, so it's dot dot dot. You've just enabled anyone on the internet to log in as me or anyone else just by suffixing their input with a single quote and dash dash. And that's the least of our concerns. If we additionally went in there and maybe instead of dash we put a semicolon and then delete from users or drop users, we could cause massive havoc on their database. This happens all the time. Even now in the current year, you can Google around and see examples of companies that have not used proper sanitization of user input. And it's not just the intern. It's like random people on the internet are accessing or destroying their data maliciously. So what is the solution to a problem like this? Well, one, do not use format strings in Python to simply plug in user input. But the more important lesson is never trust users input. either they're going to do something accidentally or they're going to do something maliciously and you do not want that to happen. So the solution then is to use a library. Almost always use a library. This is not a wheel you should reinvent yourself. And by library I mean something like this. If you instead use a library like CS50s and you don't just use fstrings, you'll see in a moment you use question marks. What will happen is this. When the user goes and types in mailinharvard.edu single quote dash, that's fine. and let them put weird scary characters like single quotes in their input. The library will take charge of escaping user input. So anything dangerous in their input will be changed from one single quote to two because we saw earlier today that that's how you escape a character. And that means that now what you have is in effect my username is apparently meenhar.edu apostrophe dash and that's my username. Well that's obviously not a real email address. It's not a real username. This is just going to return false. No rows are actually going to come back. And the way to do this now in our favorites example analogously is in VS Code here to actually go up into this uh execute line. Don't use an F string. Change the value of problem to be a placeholder instead and then pass into this execute function one or more arguments that will be substituted in for that question mark. And this is not a CS50 thing. This is a uh industry convention whereby you quite often use literally a question mark. And that means that whatever this variable's value is will get plugged into that question mark for you. But the single quotes will be added. Any dangerous characters will be escaped for you. And at that point, you can trust that the user can type in anything they want. Your code is not going to break. You can see hints of this actually in the real world. If you've ever gone to a website and they tell you like, oh, you can't you like for passwords for instance, like all of us probably intuitively know that you should have pretty long uh hard to guess passwords with letters and numbers and punctuation symbols. Sometimes websites very stupidly prohibit you from using certain punctuation symbols, which should drive you nuts because there's no computational reason that you have to put the onus on the user to sanitize their own input. But quite likely those websites have kind of learned part of this lesson and they know some characters can be dangerous in SQL like semicolons or single quotes or the like and they just don't want you to ever type those in. Even though there are solutions to this problem, use a library that someone else smarter than you u with more history of writing code than you has used that's open source so that many people have seen it and banged on it over the years so that this problem is not something you're vulnerable to. questions then on what these here SQL injection attacks are all about. Yeah, &gt;&gt; I guess you're telling the user what not to use, you're also telling them what system you're using and so maybe that &gt;&gt; Good point. So if by also telling people what characters they shouldn't use, you're leaking information because a smart adversary might know, oh well, if they don't want me using that symbol, they're probably using this language or this technology. Yes, no good comes from telling the world more information than they need to know. So that's another good paranoia to have. How about one other issue before we come full circle to the SQL injection attacks. There's another challenge with relational databases and with SQL uh itself, namely race conditions. This isn't so much a problem when I'm writing a a little program here on my own computer. uh but when you're running SQL code on a database in the real world in the cloud where you have many different servers talking to that database and many different users uh talking to those web servers as is going to be the case at Meta and Google and Microsoft and any number of popular companies nowadays and even some of CS50's own apps uses centralized SQL databases where if multiple people are trying to do the same thing on them at the same time submit their homework run check 50 we too are vulnerable to what are called race conditions. So what is a race condition? Well, the way I learned this back in the day when taking a course on databases and operating systems uh more generally was to think of a scenario like this. Maybe in your dorm, you and your roommates have a little dorm fridge and you're both in the habit of really liking to drink milk as the story was told to us. And so maybe one of you comes home from class one day and you get get to your room, look in the fridge, there's no milk in there. And so you decide to walk across the street to CVS or some other store to get milk. Meanwhile, your roommate comes home from their class and opens the fridge and it's like, "Oh, we're out of milk. Let me go to the store, too." And for the sake of the story, they go to a different store altogether so that you don't run into each other and the problem solves itself. So now both of you are on your way to a store to get milk. Time passes. You both come home. One of you puts a jug of milk in the fridge. The other one gets home and is like, "Ah, damn it." Like we already got milk. I can't fit this milk in the fridge or now it's too much milk. We don't really like milk this much. It's going to go bad. Like very bad outcome here. Having too much milk is the moral of the story. But what's the what stupid story? What's the What's the real takeaway? Why did we find ourselves in a situation where we ended up with too milk, too much milk? &gt;&gt; We didn't know what the other person &gt;&gt; we didn't know what the other person was doing. And to really geek out on this, we inspected the state of a variable that was in the process of being updated by someone else. And this is a thing in computing as far back as Scratch. Recall with Scratch, you could have multiple scripts running at the same time for a single sprite because Scratch in effect is multi-threaded. You can have a single sprite doing multiple things in parallel by having those multiple scripts. Similarly, here your room is sort of multi-threaded because you have two independent beings who can both go to the store, solve the same problem in parallel. The problem though is that if one is not aware that the other is doing that work already, you might make poor decisions. So, in the real world, what should the first roommate have done after inspecting the state of the refrigerator and realizing, "Oh, we're out of milk." Okay, call the other roommate or maybe more simply like put a note on the door or like maybe dramatically lock the refrigerator somehow. And in fact, that's a term of art in databases is to actually use a database lock so that if you are in the process of updating the value in the database, lock it so that no one else can inspect the value of that database and potentially make a poor decision. So when might this actually happen in the real world rather than the contrived milk example. So there are a lot of social media posts nowadays that are quite popular. To this day, as of today, this is still the most popular Instagram post for instance. And imagine when this was first posted, hundreds, thousands, hundreds of thousands of people might have all been clicking the heart icon essentially at the same time. Now, Meta uh the company behind Instagram presumably has lots and lots of different servers, but let's suppose for the sake of discussion they have a single database, which is not true, but the danger is still there. Even with multiple databases, all of these different web servers are talking to the same database. And suppose those those servers are using Python code and hey the CS50 library that might look a little something like this in order to decide how to update the total number of likes for an Instagram post. The first line of code running on meta servers might say this. Get these rows as follows. execute a query like select the current number of likes from the posts table where the ID of the post is whatever it is 1 2 3 4 5 6 whatever notice no SQL injection attacks uh possible here because I'm using the placeholder not an F string then the next line of code running on meta server maybe just stores in a variable just to make the code more readable uh the first rows likes column so it's again it's the CS50 library in the story rows is a list of dictionaries so this is the first such element in the list and this is the likes column in the column we just selected the temporary table. Lastly, what do we want to do? Well, we want to plus+ essentially that total. So, we update the post table setting the number of likes equal to this question mark where the ID equals this question mark. And we didn't see this already, but the CS50 library supports indeed multiple arguments after the SQL string. I'm going to update the number of likes to be likes plus one. Plugging in the same ID of that post. So in short, take on faith that it's quite common that in order to achieve one small goal like updating the number of likes stands to reason you might need to do two database queries or three lines of code. Now if these lines of code are executing on multiple web servers, you could certainly imagine that if people are hitting the the like button pretty much at the same time, maybe one server is going to execute this first line of code and it's going to get its answer. Maybe there's a hundred likes at this point in the story. And then just by chance on another server, this line of code is also executed, but it too gets the same answer. There's currently a hundred likes. Meanwhile, the first server in the story continues to do its execution of code such that it updates the number of likes from 100 to 101. But because the other server was essentially running the same code in parallel, it's going to make the same mathematical decision and update the number of posts, the number of likes from 100 to 101. But at this point in the story, the number of likes should obviously be 10. and two, so we've lost data. And that's one of the dangers of a race condition is that you'll end up with an inaccurate result. And for a company like Meta, they don't want to go losing data like likes like this. Like that actually drives engagement and so forth. And so like that's genuinely a technical, if not a business problem as well. So it's analogous to sort of the milk problem, but actually at scale. So what's the solution? There's a bunch of different ways, but conceptually, we just want to lock the database when this logic is being executed such that when one server is updating the number of likes, no one else should be allowed to update the like count at the same time. Now, that's a little crazy for someone as big as Meta because you're really just serializing all of these likes and slowing things down. So, there's more fine grain control nowadays, namely called transactions, where you can essentially lock not the whole table and certainly not the whole database, but just the row in question, for instance. And so you would use commands in SQL like begin transaction and then execute the lines of code that you want. And then when you're ready to commit it, that is save it, you use the commit command. But if something goes wrong or you get interrupted, you can actually roll back the whole thing. And what this kind of code does in effect by using more verbose uh CS50 and Python code like this is you can ensure that those three lines of code inside or technically the two database queries inside will either both be executed or not at all. They will not be interrupted. And that's the fundamental solution to this problem analogous to putting a lock on the fridge or by leaving a note or calling your roommate preventing them from making the same decision themselves. questions then on these race conditions the solutions again even though this won't be gerine for CS50 simply using techniques like locks and what we called transactions no all right then a final moment to end on uh we would not be a computer science course if we didn't introduce you to a few pieces of CS cannon uh here is a sort of meme that's circulated for years when it comes to like optical character recognition OCR of like toll booths trying to detect your license plate automatically This is someone trying to have a funny old time tricking the city into deleting their database altogether. Because if you're just scanning this off of someone's license plate or front of the car and just blindly plugging it in without sanitizing their input, escaping their input with something like a good library, you might very well drop the entire database. As an aside, something did something similar too where I think they made their license plate null. NL, which just confused the heck out of the system, too, because the programmers didn't understand why null was all over the place when lights were being run and whatnot. And lastly, a very famed uh character in the world of XKCD as computer science circles goes is this. So we'll end as we've done before on an awkward silence as you process this here canonical CS joke. &gt;&gt; Now you two know who Bobby Tables is. All right, that's it for week seven. All right. This is CS50 and this is our lecture on artificial intelligence or AI. Particularly for all of those family members who are here in the audience with us for the first time. In fact, uh for those students among us, maybe a round of applause for all of the family members who have come here today to join you. Nice. So nice to see everyone. And as CS50 students already know, it's sort of a thing in programming circles to uh have a rubber duck on your desk. Indeed, a few weeks back, we gave one to all CS50 students. And the motivation is to have someone something to talk to in the presence of a bug or mistake in your code or confusion you're having when it comes to solving some problem. And the idea is that in the absence of having a friend, family member, TA of whom you can ask questions is to literally verbalize your confusion, your question to this inanimate object on your desk. And in that process of verbalizing your own confusion and explaining yourself, quite often does that proverbial light bulb go off over your head and voila, problem is solved. Now, as CS50 students also know, we sort of virtualized that rubber duck over the past few years and most recently in a form of uh this guy here. So, in students programming environment within CS50, a tool called Visual Studio Code at a URL of CS50.dev, they have a virtual rubber duck available available to them at all times. And early on in the very first version of this rubber duck, it was a chat window that looked like this. And if students had a question, they could simply type into the chat window something like, "I'm hoping you can help me solve a problem." And for multiple years, all the CS50 duck did was respond with one, two, or three quacks. Uh we have anecdotal evidence to suggest that that alone was enough for answering students questions because it was in that process of like actually typing out the confusion that you realize, oh, I'm doing something silly and you figure it out on your own. But of course now that we live in an age of chatgbt and claude and gemini and all of these other AI based tools came as no surprise perhaps when in 2023 this same duck started responding to students in English and that now is the tool that they have available which is in effect meant to be a less helpful version of chat GPT one that doesn't just spoil answers outright but tries to guide them to solutions akin to any good teacher or tutor and so today's lecture is indeed on just that and the underlying building blocks that make possible that their rubber duck in all of the AI with which we're all increasingly familiar, namely generative artificial intelligence using this technology known as AI to generate something, whether that's images or sounds or video or text. And in fact, what we thought we'd do to get everyone involved early on is if you uh have a phone uh by your side, if you'd like to go ahead and scan this QR QR code here, and that's going to lead you to a polling station where you can buzz in with some answers. Um, CS50's preceptor Kelly is going to kindly join me here on stage to help run the keyboard. And what we're about to do is play a little game and see just how good we humans are right now at distinguishing AI from reality. And so we'll borrow some data from uh the New York Times, which a couple years back actually published some examples of AI and not AI, and we'll see just how good this this technology has gotten. So here we have two photographs on the screen. In a moment, you'll be asked on your phone, if you were successful in scanning that code, which one of these is AI, left or right. So hopefully on your phone here, if you want to go ahead and swipe to the next screen, we'll activate the poll here. In a moment, you should see on your phone a prompt inviting you to select left or And feel free to raise your hand if you're not seeing that. But it looks like the responses are coming in. And at the risk of spoiling, it looks like 70% plus of you think it is the answer on the right. And if Kelly, maybe we could swipe back to the two photographs. In this particular case, yes, it was in fact the one on the right. Maybe it looked a little too good or maybe a little too unreal. Maybe. Let's see maybe a couple of other examples. So, same QR code. No need to rescan. Let's go ahead and pull up these two examples. Now, two photographs, same question. Which of these is AI? Left or right? left or right. All right, want to take a look at the chart, see what the responses are coming in a little closer in this case, but a majority of you think the answer is in fact left here, though 5% of you were truthfully admitting that you're unsure. But Kelly, if you want to swipe back to the photos, the answer this time was in fact a trick question. They were both in fact AI, which perhaps speaks to just how good this technology is already getting. Neither of these faces exists in the real world. It was synthesized based on lots of training data. So, two photographs that look like humans but do not in fact exist. How about one more? This time focusing on text, which will be uh the focus, of course, underlying our duck. Did a fourth grader write this or the new chatbot? Here are two final examples. Uh same code as before, so no need to rescan. And here are the texts. Essay one. I like to bring a yummy sandwich and a cold juice box for lunch. And sometimes I'll even pack a tasty piece of fruit or a bag of crunchy chips. As we eat, we chat and laugh and catch up on each other's day. dot dot dot. C. Essay two. My mother packs me a sandwich, a drink, fruit, and a treat. When I get into a lunchroom, I find an empty table and sit there and eat my lunch. My friends come and sit down with me. dot dot dot. The question now, lastly, is which of these is AI? One or Essay one or two? The bars here are duking themselves out. Looks like a majority of you say essay one. Let's go back to the text. And someone of you who one of you who says essay 1, why if you want to raise a quick hand? Why essay one? Yeah. &gt;&gt; Okay. And so essay 2 looks more like you would write. And can I ask what grade you are in? &gt;&gt; A fifth grader. So is this a new fifth grader or not? The answer here in fact is that essay one is the AI because indeed essay 2 is more akin to what a fourth or if I may a fifth grader would write. And I dare say there are maybe some telltale signs. I'm not sure a typical fourth grader or fifth grader would catch up on each other's day in the vernacular that we see in essay one. But suffice it to say this game is not something we can play for in the years to come because it's just going to get too hard to discern something that's AI generated or not. And so among our goals for today is really to give you a better sense of not just how technologies like this duck and these games that we've played here with images and text work, but really what are the underlying principles of artificial intelligence that frankly have been with us and have been been developing for decades and have really now come to a head in recent years thanks to advances in research, thanks to all the more cloud computing, thanks to all the more uh memory and disk space and information sheer volume thereof that we have at our disposal that can be used to train all of these here technologies. ies. So that their duck is built on a fairly complicated uh architecture that looks a little something like this where here's a student using one of CS50's tools. Here's a website with which CS50 students are familiar called CS50.AI AI where we the staff wrote a bunch of code that actually talks to what are called APIs, application programming interfaces, thirdparty services by companies like Microsoft and OpenAI that really have been doing the hard work of developing these models as well as some local sweet uh some local sauce that we CS50 add into the mix to make it specific the ducks answers to CS50 itself. But what we've essentially been doing is uh something that with which you might be familiar in part prompt engineering which has started popping up for better or for worse on uh LinkedIn profiles everywhere. And prompt engineering really it's not so much a form of engineering as it is a form of asking good questions and being detailed in your question giving context to the underlying AI so that the answer with high probability is what you want back. And so there's two terms in this world of prompt engineering that are worth knowing about. So in CS50 has leveraged both of these to implement that duck. We for instance wrote what's called a system prompt which are instructions written by us humans often in English that sort of nudge the underlying AI technology to have a certain personality or a specific domain of expertise. For instance, we CS50 have written a system prompt essentially that looks like this. In reality, it's like a lot of lines long nowadays, but the essence of it is this. You are a friendly and supportive teaching assistant for CS50. You are also a rubber duck and that is sufficient to turn an AI into a rubber duck. It turns out answer student questions only about CS50 in the field of computer science. Do not answer questions about unrelated topics. Do not provide full answers to problem sets as this would violate academic honesty. Answer this question colon and after that preamble if you will aka system prompt we effectively copy paste whatever question a student has typed in otherwise known as a user prompt. And that is why the duck behaves like a duck in our case and not a cat or a dog or a PhD, but rather something that's been attenuated to the particular goals we have pedagogically in the course. And in fact, those of you who are CS50 students might recall from quite some weeks ago in week zero when we first introduced the course uh to the class, we had code that we whipped up that day that ultimately looked a little something like this. And I'll walk through it briefly line by line. But now on the heels of having studied some Python in CS50, this year code that I whipped up in the first lecture might make now a bit more sense. In that first lecture, we imported OpenAI's own library code that a third party company wrote to make it possible for us to implement code on top of theirs. We created a variable called client in week zero and this gave us access to the OpenAI client. That is software that they wrote for us. We then defined in week zero a user prompt which came from the user using the input function with which CS50 students are now familiar. And then we defined this system prompt that day where I said limit your answer to one sentence. Pretend you're a dot dot dot cat I think was the persona of the day. And then we used some bit more arcane code here. But in essence we created a variable called response which was meant to represent the response from OpenAI server. We used client.responses.create create which is a function or method that OpenAI gives us that allows us to pass in three arguments. The input from the user that is the user prompt the instructions from us that is the system prompt and then the specific model or version of AI that we wanted to use and the last thing we did that day was print out response.output_ext and that's how we were able to answer questions like what is CS50 or the like. So, we've seen all of that before, but we didn't talk about that week exactly how it was working or what more we could actually do with it. And so, in fact, what I thought we'd do today is peel back a layer that we've not allowed into the course up until now. And indeed, you still cannot use this feature until the very end of the class in CS50 when you get to your final projects, at which point you are welcome and encouraged to use VS Code in uh this particular way. So, here again is VS Code. For those unfamiliar, this is the programming environment we use here with students. And let me open up some code that was assigned to students a couple of weeks back, namely a spell checker that they had to implement in C. So I came in advance with a folder called speller. And inside of this folder, I had code that day and all students had that week called dictionary.c. And in this file, which will not look familiar to many of you if you've not taken weeks 0 through uh seven up until now, we did have some placeholders for students. So long story short, students had to answer a few questions. that is write code to do this to-do, this to-do, this to-do, and one more. There were four functions or blanks that students needed to fill in with code. And I dare say it took most students 5 hours, 10 hours, 15 hours, something in that very broad range. Let me show you now how using AI, you soon, the aspiring programmers can start to write code all the more quickly. not by just choosing a different language but by using these AI best based technologies beyond the duck itself. So what I've done here on the right hand side of VS code is enabled a feature that CS50 disables for all students from the start of the course called copilot. This is very similar in spirit to products from Google um and anthropic and other companies as well. But this is the one that comes from Microsoft and in turn GitHub here and it too gives us me sort of a chat window here and this is just one of its features. For instance, if I wanted to implement to get started the check function, I could just ask it to do that. Implement the check function and uh how about using a hasht in C. I'm going to go ahead and click enter. Now it's going to work. It's using as reference that is context the very file that I've opened which is dictionary.c here. Um, copilot in general as as well as a lot of AI tools are familiar with CS50 itself because it's been freely available as open courseware for years. What you see here it doing is essentially thinking though that's a bit of an overstatement. It's not really thinking. It's trying to find patterns in what the the problem is I want to solve among all of its training data that it's seen before and come up with a pretty good answer. So for today's purposes, I'm going to wave my hand at the chat GPT like explanation of what to do that has appeared at right. But what's juiciest to look at here is on the left if I now scroll down is highlighted in green is all of the suggested code for implementing this here check function. Now it might not be the way you implemented it yourself but I do dare say this has hints of exactly what you probably did when it came to implementing a hash a hash table. And in fact I can go ahead and keep all of this code if I like how it looks. Let's assume that's all correct there. Uh it might be the case that I want to now implement the load function. So how about now implement load function enter as simple as that. And what data is being used? Well, a few different things. It says one reference. So it's indeed using this one file. But there's also what are called comments in the code with which all students are now familiar. These slash commands in gray that are giving English hints as to what this function is supposed to do. There's implicit information as to what the inputs to these functions, otherwise known as arguments are meant to be, what the outputs are meant to be. So the underlying AI called co-pilot here kind of has a decent number of hits hints and much like a good TA or good software engineer that's enough context to figure out how to fill in those blanks. And so here too if I scroll down now we'll see in green some suggested code via which it could uh solve that same problem as well. the load function. And I dare say I've been talking for far fewer minutes than CS50 students spent actually coding the solution from scratch to this here problem. So I'll go ahead and click keep. I'll assume that it's correct. But that's actually quite a big assumption. And those of you wondering like why have we been learning off all this? If I could just ask in English it to do my homework for me. I mean there's a lot to be said for the muscle memory that hopefully you feel you've been developing over the past several weeks. The reality is if you don't have an eye for what you're looking at, there's no way you're going to be able to troubleshoot an issue in here, explain it to someone else, make marginal changes or the like. And yet, what's incredibly exciting even to someone like me, all of the staff, friends of mine in the industry, is that this kind of functionality and AI amplifies your capabilities as a programmer sort of overnight. Once you have that vocabulary, that muscle memory for doing it yourself, the AI can just take it from there and get rid of all of the tedium, allow you to focus at the whiteboard with the other humans on sort of the overarching problems that you want to solve and leave it to this AI to actually solve problems for you. A fun exercise too might be to go back uh at terms end and try solving any number of the courses assignments. For instance, let me go ahead and do this. In my terminal window here, I'm going to go back to my main directory. I'm going to create an empty file called Mario.c. C that has nothing in it. And I'm going to go ahead in my chat window here and say, please implement a program in C that prints a left aligned pyramid of bricks using hash symbols for bricks and use the CS50 library to ask the user for a non negative height as an integer. Period. I dare say that's essentially the English description of what was for CS50 this year problem set one to implement a program called Marioc. This two is sort of doing its thing. It's using one reference. It's working. It knows as a hint that this file is called Mario.c. And it's seen a lot of those in its training data over time. There's an English explanation of what I should do. And those CS50 students in the room probably recognize the sort of basic structure here of using a dowh loop to prompt the user for a height using the CS50 library which has been included. print a left alto line pyramid using some kind of loop and boom, we are done. And these are fairly bite-sized problems as you'll see as you get to terms end with your final project, which is a fairly open-ended opportunity to apply your newfound knowledge and savvy with programming itself to a problem of interest. It will allow you to implement far grander projects, far greater projects than has been possible to date, certainly in just the few weeks we have to do it because of this uh amplification of your own abilities. So with that promise, let's talk about how in the heck any of this is actually working. I clearly just generated a whole lot of stuff and that's how we began the story with the generation of those images and those two essays by kids. But what is generative artificial intelligence or really what is AI itself? And these are some of the underlying building blocks that aren't going anywhere anytime soon and indeed have led us as a progression to the capabilities you just saw. So spam, we sort of take for granted now that in our Gmail inboxes or Outlook inboxes, most of the spam just ends up in a folder. Well, there's not some human at Microsoft or Google sort of manually labeling the messages as they come in, deciding spam or not spam. They're figuring out using code and nowadays using AI that looks like spam and therefore I'm going to put it in the spam folder, which is probably correct 99% of the time, but indeed there's potentially a failure rate. Um, other applications might include handwriting recognition. Certainly Microsoft and Google doesn't know the handwriting style of all of us here in this room, but it's been trained on enough other humans handwriting styles that odds are your handwriting in mine looks similar to someone else's. And so with very high probability, they could recognize something like Hello World here as indeed that same digital text. All of us are into streaming services nowadays, Netflix and the like. Well, they're getting pretty darn good at knowing if I watched X, I might also like Y. Why? Well, because of other things I've I've watched before and maybe upvoted and downvoted. Maybe because of other things people have watched who like similar movies or TV shows to me. So that too is AI. There's no ifels else if else if else construct for every movie or TV show in their database. It's sort of figuring out much more organically, dynamically what you and I might like. And then all these voice assistants today, Siri, Alexa, Google Assistant, and the like. Those two don't recognize your voice or necessarily know what questions you're going to ask it. There's no massive if else if that has all possible questions in the world just waiting for you or me to ask it. That too, of course, is dynamically generated. But that's getting a bit ahead of ourselves. Let's like rewind in time. And some of the parents in the audience might remember this year game among the first arcade games in the world, namely Pong. And so this was a black and white game whereby there's two players, a paddle on the left, a paddle on the right, and then using some kind of joystick or track ball, they can move their paddles up and down, and the goal is to bounce the ball back and forth and ideally catch it every time. Otherwise, you uh lose a point. Uh this is just an animated GIF, so there's nothing really dramatic to watch. It's going to stay at 15 against 12. Uh just looping again and again. Nothing interesting is going to happen, but this is a nice example of a game that lends itself to solving it with code. And indeed, it's been in our vernacular for years to play against not just the computer, but the the CPU, the central processing unit, or really the AI. And yet, AI does not need to be nearly as sophisticated as the tools we now see. For instance, here's a successor to Pong known as Breakout. Similar in spirit, but there's just one paddle and one ball, and the goal is to bounce the ball off of these colorful bricks, and you get more and more points depending on how high up you can get the ball. All of us as humans, even if you've never played this old school game, probably have an instinct as to where we should move the paddle. If the ball just left it going this way, which direction should I move the paddle? I mean, probably to the left. And indeed, that'll catch it on the way down. So, you and I just made a decision that's fairly instinctive, but it's been ingrained in us, but we could sort of take all the fun out of the game and start to quantify it or describe it a little more algorithmically, step by step. In fact, decision trees are a concept from economics, strategic thinking, computer science as well. That's one way of solving this problem in such a way that you will always play this game well if you just follow this algorithm. So, for instance, how might we implement uh code uh or decision-m process for something like breakout? Well, you ask yourself first, is the ball to the left of the paddle? If so, you know where we're going, then go ahead and move the paddle left. But what if the answer were no? In fact, well, you don't just blindly move the paddle to the right. probably. What should you then ask? &gt;&gt; Are we right below the ball? &gt;&gt; Are you right below the ball? If the ball's coming right at you, you don't want to just naively go to the right and then risk missing it. So, there's another question to ask. Is the ball to the right of the paddle? And that's a yes no question. If yes, well then okay, move it to the right. But if not, you should probably stay exactly where you are and don't move the paddle. All right, so that's fairly deterministic, if you will. Um, and we can map it to code using pseudo code in uh say a class like CS50. We can say in a loop, well, while the game is ongoing, if the ball's to the left of the paddle, then move the paddle left. Uh, else if the ball's to the right of the paddle, sorry for the typo there, move the paddle right. Uh, else just don't move the paddle. And so these decision trees, as we drew it, have a perfect mapping to code or really pseudo code in this particular case, which is to say that's how people who implemented the breakout game or the pawn game, who implemented a computer player surely coded it up. It was as straightforward as that. But how about something like tic-tac-toe, which some of you might have played on the way in for just a moment on the scraps of paper um that you might have had. Uh here we have a tic-tac-toe board with two uh O's and two X's. For those unfamiliar, this game tic-tac-toe, otherwise known as knights and crosses, is a matter of going back and forth, X's and O's between two people. And the goal is to get three O's in a row or three X's in a row, either vertically, horizontally, or diagonally. So this is a game here in mid-progress. Well, let's consider how you could solve the game of tic-tac-toe like a a computer, like an AI might. Well, you could ask yourself, can I get three in a row on this turn? Well, if yes, well, play in the square to get three in a row. It's as straightforward as that. If you can't, though, what should you ask? Well, can my opponent get three in a row on their next turn? Because if so, you should probably at least block their move next, so at least you don't lose. now. But this game, tic-tac-toe, is relatively simple as it is, gets a little harder to play when it's not obvious where you should go. Now, all of us as humans, if you grew up playing this game, probably had heruristics you used, like you really like the middle or you like the top corner or something like that. So, we probably can uh make our next move quickly, but is it optimal? And I dare say if back in childhood or more recently you've ever lost a game of tic-tac-toe like you're just bad at tic-tac-toe because logically there's no reason you should ever lose a game of tic-tac-toe if you're playing optimally. At worst you should force a tie but at best you should win the game. So think of that the next time you play tic-tac-toe and lose like you're doing something wrong. But in your defense it's because the question mark is sort of not obvious. like how do I answer it when the answer is not right in front of me to move for the win or move for the block? Well, one algorithm you could have been using all of these years is called Miniax. And as the name suggest, it's all about minimizing something and or maximizing something else. So here too, let's take a bit of fun out of the game and turn it into some math, but relatively simple math. So here we have three representative tic-tac-toe boards. O has one here, X has one here, and the middle is a tie. Doesn't matter how we score these boards, but we need a consistent system. So I'm going to propose that anytime O wins the score of the game is negative 1. Anytime X wins, the score of the game is a positive one. And anytime nobody wins, the score is zero. Um so at this point each of these boards have these values negative 1, 0, and one. So the goal therefore in this game of tic-tac-toe now is for X to maximize its score because one is the biggest value available and O's goal in life is to minimize its score. So that's how we take the fun out of the game. We turn it into math where one player just wants to maximize, one player just wants to minimize their score. All right, so a quick uh sanity check here. Here's a board. It's not colorcoded. What is the value of this board? &gt;&gt; One because x has in fact one straight there down the middle. So x is one zero o is negative one otherwise a tie. So now let's see how we go about with those principles in place figuring out where we should play in tic-tac-toe. Now, here's a fairly easy configuration. There's only two moves left. It's not hard to figure out how to win or tie this game. But let's use it for simpl for simplicity. It's O's turn, for instance. So, where can O go? Well, that invites the question, well, what is the value of the board? Or how do we how do we minimize the value of the board for O to win? Well, O can go in one of two places, top left or bottom middle. Which way should O go? Well, if O goes in top left, we should consider what's the value of this board? Is it minimal? Well, let's see. uh if O goes here, X is obviously going to go here. X is therefore going to win. So the value of this board is going to be a one. Now since there's only one way logically to get from this configuration to this one, we might as well call the value of this board by transitivity one. And so O probably doesn't want to go there because that's a pretty maximal score and O wants to minimize. Over here though, if O goes bottom middle, well then X is going to go top left. And now no one has one. So the value of this board is thus &gt;&gt; zero. we might as well treat this as zero because that's the only way to get there logically. So now O more mathematically and logically can decide do I want an end point of one or an end point of zero. Well zero is probably the better option because that's less than one and thus it's the minimal possibility. So O is going to go ahead in the bottom middle and at least force a tie. And so that's where you see evidence where if you humans are ever losing the game of tic-tac-toe, you have not followed that their logic. But you could probably do it if there's just two moves left. But the catch is, let's go ahead and sort of rewind to three moves left here. There are three blanks. And I've kind of zoomed out. The catch is that the decision tree gets a lot bigger the more and more moves that are left. It gets sort of bigger and bushier in that it's essentially doubling in size and width. And that's great if you have the luxury of writing it down on a piece of paper. But if you're doing this on your head while playing against a a fifth grader, if I may, you're probably not drawing out all of the various boards and configurations, trying to play it optimally. You're going with some instinct. And your instincts might not be aligned with an algorithm that is tried andrude miniax that will ideally get you to win the game, but at least will get you to force a tie if you can't win. But tic-tac-toe is not that hard. I mean, how many different ways are there to play tic-tac-toe? could write a computer program to pretty much play tic-tac-toe optimally. Um, we could use code like this. If the player is X for each possible move, calculate the score for the board at that point in time and then choose the move with the highest score. So, you just try all possibilities mathematically and then you make the decision. Most of us in our heads are not doing that, but we could. Um, else does the player essentially do the same thing, but choose the minimal possible score. So, that's the code for implementing tic-tac-toe. How many ways are there to play tic-tac-toe though? Well, 255,168, which means if we were to draw that tree, it would be pretty darn big and it would take you quite a bit of time to sort of think through all those possibilities. So, in your defense, you're maybe not that bad at tic-tac-toe. It's just harder than you thought as a game. But what about games with which we might as adults be more familiar? Well, what about the game of chess, which is often used as a measure of like how smart a computer is, whether it's Watson back in the day playing against it or something else? Well, if we consider even just the first four moves of tic-tac-toe, whereby I mean black goes and white goes, and then they each go three more times. So, four pair-wise moves. How many different ways are there to play chess? Well, it turns out 85 billion just to get the game started. And that's a lot of decisions to consider and then make. How about the game of Go a familiar? Consider the first four move 266 quintilion possibilities. And this is where we sort of as humans and even with our modern PCs and Macs and phones kind of have to throw up our hands because I don't have this many bytes of memory in my computer. I don't have this many hours in my life left to actually crunch all of those numbers and figure out the solution. And so where AI comes in is where it's no longer as simple as just writing if else's and loops and no longer as simple as just trying all possibilities. You instead need to write code that doesn't solve the problem directly but in some sense indirectly. You write code so that the computer figures out how to win. Perhaps by showing it configurations of the board that are a good place to be in that is promising and maybe showing it boards that it doesn't want to find itself in the configuration of because that's going to lead it to lose. In other words, you train it but not necessarily as exhaustive. And this is what we mean nowadays by machine learning. writing code via which machines learn how to solve problems generally by being trained on massive amounts of data and then in new problems looking for patterns via which they can apply those past training data to the problem at hand. And reinforcement learning is one way to think about this. In fact, in fact, we as humans use reinforcement learning which is a type of machine learning sort of all of the time. Um in fact uh uh a fun demonstration to watch here involves these here are pancakes. So, in fact, let me go ahead and pull up a short recording here of an actual researcher in a lab who's trying to teach a robot how to make uh how to flip pancakes. So, we'll see here in this video that there's a robot has a arm that can go up, down, left, right. This, of course, is the human, the researcher, and he's just going to show the robot one or more times like how to flip a pancake and crosses his fingers and okay, seems to have done it well. Does it again. Not quite the same, but pretty good. And now he's going to let the robot just try to figure out how to flip that pancake after having just trained it a few different times. The first few times, odds are the robot's not going to do super well cuz it really doesn't understand what the human just did or what the whole purpose of. But and here's the key detail with reinforcement learning. Behind the scenes, the human is probably rewarding the robot when it does a good job. like better and better it flips, the more it gets rewarded as by like hitting a key and giving it a point, for instance, or giving it the digital equivalent of a cookie. Or conversely, every time the robot screws up and drops the pancake on the floor, sort of a proverbial slap on the wrist, a punishment so that it does less of that behavior the next time. And any of you who are parents, which by definition today, many of you are, odds are, whether it's not this or maybe just verbal uh approval or reprimands, have you probably trained children at some point to do more of one thing and less of another. And what you're seeing in the backdrop there is now just a quantization of the movements X, Y, and Z coordinates so that it can do more of the X's and the Y's and the Z that led it to some kind of reward. And now after you're up to some 50 trials, the robot seems to be getting better and better such that like a good human, we'll see if I can do this without embarrassing myself, can flip the thing. That's pretty good. That was pretty I've been doing this a long time. Okay, so we've seen then how you might uh reinforce learning through that kind of domain. Let's take an example that's familiar to those of you who are gamers. Anytime you've played a game where there's some kind of map or a world that you need to explore up, down, left, right, maybe you're trying to get to the exit. So here simplistically is the player at the yellow dot. Here for instance in green is the exit of the map and you want to get to that point. And maybe somewhere else in this world there's a lot of like lava pits and you don't want to fall into the lava pit because you lose a life or you lose a point or there's some penalty or punishment associated with that. Well, we with this bird's eye view can obviously see how to get to the green dot. But if you're playing a game like Zelda or something like that, all you can do is move up, down, left, right, and sort of hope for the best. So, let's do just that. Suppose the yellow dot just randomly chooses a direction and goes to the right. Well, now we can sort of take away a life, take away a point or effectively punish it so that it knows don't do that. And so long as the uh player has a bit of memory, either the human player or the code that's implementing this just with a dark red line, that means don't do that again because that didn't lead to a good outcome. So maybe the next time the yellow dot goes this way and this way and then ah didn't realize that that's actually the same lava pit. But that's fine. Use a little bit more memory and remind me don't do that because I just lost a second life in this story and maybe it goes this way next time. Ah, now I need to remember don't do that. But effectively, I'm either being punished for doing the wrong thing. Ah, or as we'll soon see, being rewarded for doing more of the successful thing. And just by chance, maybe I finally make my way to the exit in this way. And so I can be rewarded for that. Now I got 100 points or whatever it is, the high score. So now, as per these green lines, I can just follow that path again and again, and I can always win this game. kind of like me nowadays, like 30 years later, playing Super Mario Brothers because I can get through all the warp levels because I know where everything is because for some reason that's still stored in my brain. Is this the best way to play? Am I as good at Super Mario Brothers as I might think? What's bad about this solution? Yeah. &gt;&gt; Exactly. Yeah. I've moved many more times than I need to. And just for fun today, what grade are you in? &gt;&gt; Uh, seventh. &gt;&gt; Seventh grade. Wonderful. So now seventh grade observation is like exactly that that we could have taken a shorter path which is essentially that way albeit uh making some straight moves. And so we're never going to find that shorter path. We're never going to get the highest score possible if I just keep naively following my welltrodden path. And so how do we break out of that mold? And you can see this even in the real world. Another sort of personal example is I'm the type of person for some reason where if I go to a restaurant for the first time, I choose a dish off the menu and I really like it. I will never again order anything else off that menu other than that dish because I know it is good. But there could be something even better on the menu, but I'm never going to explore that because I'm sort of fixed in my ways, as some of you from the smiles might be too. But what if we took advantage of exploring just a little bit? And there's this principle of exploring versus exploiting when it comes to using artificial intelligence to solve problems. Up until now, I've just been exploiting knowledge I already have. Don't go through the red walls. Do go through the green walls. Exploit, exploit, exploit. and I will get to a final solution. But what if I just sprinkle in a little bit of randomness along the way and maybe 10% of the time as represented by this epsilon variable, I as the computer in the story generate a random number between zero and one. And if it's less than that percent, which is going to happen 10% of the time, I'm going to make a random move instead of one that I know will get me closer to the exit. Otherwise, I'll indeed make the move with the highest value. Now, this isn't going to necessarily win me the game that first time, but if I play it enough and enough and enough and insert some of this randomness, I might very well find a better solution and therefore be a better player, a better winner overall. If I just 10% of the time ordered something else off the menu, I might find that there's an amazing dish out there that otherwise I wouldn't have discovered. And so indeed using that approach can we finally find a more optimal path through the maze as was shorter there presumably therefore maximizing our score and doing even better than we might have by just exploiting the same knowledge. So you can see this even in the game of Breakout especially if you write a solution in code to play this game for you. Let me go ahead and pull up another video recording of an AI playing Breakout. And what this AI is doing is essentially figuring out maybe more intelligently than you or I could, how to play this game optimally. And what we'll see here is that just like uh the pancake flipping robot, there's some notion of scoring and rewards and penalties here. So like right now, the paddle is just doing random stuff. It doesn't really know how to play the game yet, but it realizes after 200 episodes that, oh, my score goes up if I hit the ball and it goes down equivalently if I miss it. and it's still a little twitchy. It doesn't quite understand what it's supposed to do and why. But if you do it again and again and again and it's rewarded andor punished enough, you'll see that it starts to get pretty good and closer to what a good human might do. But here's where the algorithm gets a little creepy. If you let it play long enough, or if you and I, the humans play long enough, you might find a certain trick to the game. I dare say the AI becomes a bit scarily sent sentient in that turns out if you're smart enough to break through that top row, you can let the game just play itself for you and maximize your score without even touching the ball. Something that I do find a little creepy that I just figured out how to do that without being told. But it's just a logical continuation of rewarding it for good behavior and punishing it for bad behavior. So that next time you have an occasion to play Breakout, consider that kind of strategy as opposed to doing more of the work yourself, let the computer do it for you instead. Well, what else is there to consider in this world of AI in the context of machine learning? Well, there's specifically a category of learning that's supervised. And we've been using this for years. And in fact, our first example of spam early on was certainly supervised. Why? Because it was you and I who was like putting the ma email into the spam folder. to this day, maybe once a day, I hit the keyboard shortcut in Gmail to say, "Ah, this is spam. You should have caught this." And that is training Google's algorithm further, assuming it's not just little old me, but maybe thousands of people tagging that same kind of email as spam. That's supervised learning and that there's a human in the loop doing at least something. Um, so spam detection might be one of those. But the catch is that labeling data in that way manually just doesn't scale very well. That would be akin to having someone at Google or Microsoft labeling every email or someone at Netflix doing the same for all of the videos out there. It's expensive in terms of human power. And there's certainly problems out there with so much data. It's just not realistic for humans to label millions of pieces of data, billions of pieces of data. We've got to move to an unsupervised model. And so this is where the world starts to consider deep learning, solving problems using code whereby you don't even have humans in the loop in quite the same way. and neural networks inspired by the world of biology are sort of the inspiration for what is the state-of-the-art even underlying today's rubber duck and more generally these things called large language models like chat GPT and the like. So here pictured somewhat abstractly is a neuron and it's something in the human body that transmits a signal say from left to right electrically and if you have multiple neurons you can intercommunicate among them so that if I think a thought uh then I know how to raise my hand because some kind of message electrically has gone from my head to this extremity here. So that's in essence what I remember from nth grade biology. But as computer scientists, we sort of abstract all of this away. So instead of calling these two neuron, drawing them as neurons, let's just start drawing neurons as these little circles. And if they have connective tissue between them of sorts, we'll just draw a a straight line an edge between them. So this is what a computer scientist would call a graph. If you have two such neurons over here leading to one out uh one neuron here, you can think of this as being like maybe two inputs to a problem and now one output there too. We can represent the notion of problem solving, which is what CS50 and intro courses more generally are all about. So let's solve a problem with a neural network without necessarily training it in advance, just letting it figure out how to answer this question. Here's a very simple two-dimensional world, XY grid, and here are two dots. And the dots in this world are either blue or they are red. But I have no idea yet what makes a dot blue or red. However, if you train me on those two dots, I bet I could come up with predictions, especially if you let me label this world in terms of x coordinates on the horizontal, y-coordinates on the vertical, and then you know what? We can think of this neural network very simply as representing the x coordinate here, the y-coordinate here, and the answer I want to get is quote unquote red or blue or zero or one or true or false, however you want to think of the representation. So, how do I get from a specific xycoordinate to a prediction of color if I only know the coordinates? Well, up from the get-go, maybe the best I can do is just divide the world into blue dots on the left and red dots on the right. A best fit line, if you will, based on very minimal data. Of course, if you give me a third dot, it's going to be pretty easy to realize that I was a little too hasty. That line is not vertical. So, maybe we pivot the line this way. And now I'm back in business. Now, I can predict with higher probability based on XY what color the next dot will be. You give me enough of these dots, I can come up with a pretty good best fit line. It's not perfect, but here's a hint at why AI is not perfect, but 99% of the time, maybe I'll be able to predict correctly. And I can do even better if you let me squiggle the line a little bit and maybe make it more than just a simple uh slope. So, what is it we're really doing with implementing this neural network, albeit simplistically with just three neurons? Well, essentially, we're trying to come up with three values, three parameters, an A, a B, and a C. And what do those represent? Well, really just a solution to this formula. that their line we drew can be represented if you think back to like high school math with a formula along these lines where by it's a * x plus b * y plus some constant c and we can just arbitrarily conclude that if that value mathematically gives me a number greater than zero predict it's going to be blue otherwise predict it's going to be red we can sort of map our mathematics just like with tic-tac-toe to the actual problem we care about by defining the world in this way and so if you give me enough data points and enough data points I can come up with answers for that A, that B, that C. The so-called parameters in neural networks. Now, in reality, neural networks are not composed of like three neurons and a couple of edges. They look a little something more like this. And in practice, they've got billions of these things here on the screen. In which case, pretty much every one of these edges represents some mathematical value that was contrived based on lots and lots of training data. And whereas I, the computer scientist, might know what these neurons over here represent because those are my inputs, three in this case. and I, the computer scientist, know what this one represents at the end. If you sort of took the hood off of this thing and looked inside the neural network, even though there'd be millions billions of numbers going on there, I can't tell you what this neuron represents or why this edge has this uh weight. It's because of the massive amount of training data that that's just how the math works out. And if you feed me more data, I might change some of those parameters more. So the graph ultimately might look quite different, but my inputs and my outputs are going to be what I use to solve that their problem. So if you want to predict like rainfall from humidity or pressure, you can have two inputs giving that one output. Uh advertising dollar spent in a given month that might predict sales by just having trained again on such volumes of data. And when we get now full circle to something like CS50's rubber duck and large language models like claude and gemini and chacht what's really happening and this is all hot off the press in recent years screenshotted here are some of the recent research papers that have driven a lot of this advancement in recent years. you have from open AAI say a generative pre-trained transformer which is a lot to say but there's the GPT in chat GPT and essentially this is a neural network that's been trained on large volumes of textual information that gives us the interactive chat feature that we have in the class and we all have more generally in chatbt itself. So an example of what is actually happening underneath the hood of these GPTs. Well, here's a paragraph that up until recent years was kind of a hard paragraph to end with the dot dot dot. Uh, Massachusetts is a state in the New England region of the northeastern United States. It borders on the Atlantic Ocean to the east. The state's capital is dot dot dot. Now, most anyone living in Massachusetts probably knows that answer. But if this AI has just been trained on lots and lots of data, there's probably a lot of people who say Massachusetts in part of a sentence and then the answer, which I won't say yet, is in uh the other part of the sentence. But in this example, given that the question we're asking is sort of so far from some of the useful keywords up until recently, this was a hard problem to solve because there was so much distance. Moreover, there's these nouns that are being used to substitute for the proper noun. Like we suddenly start calling it a state, we call it a state down here. And it wasn't necessarily obvious to AIS that we're talking about the same thing as if it were just city, state, where you'd have much more proximity. So in a nutshell, what we now do especially to solve problems like these is we first break down a sentence or the training data or input alike into like an array or a list of the words themselves. We come up with a representation of each of these words. For instance, the word Massachusetts if you encode it in a certain way uh is going to be represented with an array or vector of numbers, floatingoint values. So many so that the word Massachusetts in one model would use these 1536 floatingoint numbers to represent Massachusetts essentially in an n-dimensional space. So not just an XY plane but somewhere sort of virtually out there and then and this has been the key to these GPTs an attention is calculated based on all of that data whereby in this picture the thicker lines imply more of a relationship between those two words. So Massachusetts and state is inferred as having a thicker line, a higher attention from one word to the other. Whereas our A's and our ises and our thus have thinner lines because they're just not as much signal to the AI as to what the answer to this question is. Meanwhile, when you then feed that sentence like the state's capital is one word per neuron here, the goal is to get the answer to that question. And even here, this is way smaller of a representation than the actual neural network would be. But in effect, all these LLMs, large language models are are just statistical models. Like what is the highest probability word that it should spit out at the end of this paragraph based on all of the Reddit posts and Google search results and encyclopedias and Wikipedias that it's found and trained on online? Well, the answer hopefully will be Boston. But of course, 1% of the time, maybe less than that, the answer might not be correct. And even CS50's own duck is fallible, even though we've written lots of code to try to put downward pressure on those mistakes. And those mistakes are what we'll call lastly hallucinations where the AI just makes something up perhaps because some crazy human on the internet made something up and it was interpreted as authoritative or just by bad luck because of a bit of that exploration 10% of the time 1% of the time the AI sort of veered this way in the large language model in the neural network and spit out an answer that just in fact is not correct. And so I thought I'd end for today on this final note, a poem with which many of us might have grown up from Shell Silverstein here about the homework machine, which years ago somehow sort of predicted the state we would be in with these AI machines. He said, "The homework machine, oh, the homework machine, most perfect