Flask package, import the Flask function, lowercase F, capital F, respectively. Then give me a variable called app. Set it equal to that function call passing in the name of this file, whatever it actually is. And then lastly, let's go ahead and call at app.rout quote unquote slash, which says, hey, Python, whatever the next function is, associate it with this slash route. And so I'm going to define that function. I could call it anything I want, foo or bar or baz. But in so far as slash represents the index of the website, like the default page, I'm just going to go ahead and call it by convention index and then return for now hello, world. And that's it. So whereas last week when I was writing code in HTML files, I was making web pages, now I've created what we'll call a web application. And it's an application in the sense that there's actually some logic going on there. There's some functions, there could be some conditionals, there's clearly a variable, there could be loops, and all of the sort of stuff we've seen in Scratch, NC, and Python as well. We'll now see back in this Python file. So, how do we now run this? Well, let me go back into my terminal window here, and I'll clear it just for good measure. I'm going to go ahead and run flask run enter. I'm going to see some cryptic looking output, but there's that familiar pop-up with the green button that wants to open up this application, whereas HTTP server uses 8080 by default. Flask uses port 5000 by default. And here we have it. I've just opened up my second tab, and we spent a lot of time there last week. This is the server I'm running, not on port 8080, but on port 5000 today. And there is the contents of what was spit out by my very first application. Now, even though the browser is rendering this like it is a web page, notice this. If I uh inspect, if I rightclick or control-click anywhere on the screen and go to view page source, you'll see that there's no actual HTML on this page. It's literally a single line of text, hello, world. If I close that and rightclick or control-click again and go to inspect like we did last week to open up developer tools, you'll see that the browser has actually filled in some blanks here for me by just rendering as it should the minimal possible web page. But the content I actually sent to the web browser is only literally hello, world. So how can I actually send a web page of my own rather than letting the browser do something like this? Well, I could go ahead and close that and go back to my application. I'm going to go ahead now and hide the terminal just because the server is still running. And what I'm going to go ahead and do here is well, nothing's really stopping me from returning not just a string of text, but a string of HTML. And this might not look pretty, but let me go ahead and do open bracket doc type HTML close bracket then HTML then head then title. And I'll just title this for instance hello to keep it simple. back slashtitle back slash head open bracket body hello, world back slashbody back sltl uh close quotes and I used single quotes in this case but I could have just as easily used double quotes but that's a full-fledged web page like that's the minimal amount of content we saw last week actually you know what for good measure let's actually add lang equals quote unquote en so it's actually fortuitous that you use single quotes because now I have some double quotes inside and even though this is not pretty printed it's just one massive mouthful of HTML all along one Fine. When I now go back to the browser, reload the page as by clicking here, and then view page source again, here's what my browser received this time. Indeed, it's the full-fledged HTML. And in fact, if I close that tab and reopen developer tools via inspect, now we'll see in the tab absolutely everything that I sent over, including a title, including the lang equals n. And had I typed even more, we would have seen that, too. All right. So, what was the point of this exercise? It feels as though that I've really just taken more time, added more complexity to achieve literally what I could have done last week by just creating index.html myself without any Python code. But I dare say what we're trying to do is lay the foundation for a full-fledged interactive website that maybe has forms that we can submit to the application that allows us to generate not just one page, but maybe two or three or any number. So what you're seeing here is sort of the beginning of google.com's search application or gmail.com itself or facebook.com or any web application you can think of begins with a little code that theoretically looks a little something like this. But this is kind of stupid to put HTML hardcoded no less in one long string here inside of my application. Let's try to factor this out. That was a lesson we preached last week about sort of factoring out our JavaScript, factoring out our CSS. We can do the same thing with our actual HTML here. And so what I'm actually going to do is import not only the Flask function, but also another function that per its documentation comes with Flask called render template with an underscore in between. This is a function whose purpose in life is to render a template, so to speak, of HTML. We'll see what we mean by template in just a bit. But down here, what I'm going to do is now delete all of that code. And let me just assume that I'm going to put that same code in a file called index.html, html just like I did last week. So let's instead return the return value of render template of quote unquote index.html. Now that file does not yet exist. Indeed, if I go into my terminal window, create a second terminal just so I can leave the server running but still see what's going on. I'm going to CD into that same hello directory, type ls to list my files, and I only see app.pay and requirements.ext. But it turns out per Flask's documentation, if you want to create your own HTML files, you simply have to add a directory that by convention is called templates. And that's it. So in addition to app.py requirements.ext, I need a folder called templates. So let's go back into VS Code, make dur templates. Capitalization matters, all lowercase. Now, let me go ahead and cd into templates and run the code command and create a file called index.html in the templates folder. And then super quickly, let me hide this. Let me whip up that same page again. Doc type HTML html lang equals quote unquote en close bracket uh head close bracket title close bracket hello and then down here body close bracket hello, world. So autocomplete is helping me type quickly. But now I have a file with my HTML that this application I claim is going to spit out automatically for me. So let's see the effect. Let me go back into my other browser tab. Let me close the developer tools and let me quite simply just click reload. And no apparent change. It's working exactly as it did before, but I've laid the foundation for making a much more useful layout of my files so that I can actually keep my logic, my Python code, and my HTML a bit separate from that. All right. Well, how can we make this into something even more interesting? Well, let's start to take some actual user input for instance. So, wouldn't it be nice if I could pass in via the URL something like Q equals cats, but maybe something like name equals David or name equals Kelly and actually see the name that's being outputed. In other words, let me zoom in up here and let me pretend like this happened automatically. Let me do question mark uh name equals David. Enter. Well, it would be nice if I saw hello, David. I'll I'll propose rather than just hello, world. So, how do I actually get access to everything after the question mark? Well, here is where a framework like Flask and any number of alternatives starts to shine. It gives me that answer for uh automatically. And so it turns out in Flask once you've used it, you have access to a special global variable as we'll call it called request.orgs where args just means the arguments or the parameters that were passed in to this HTTP request. So how do we use here. And at the very top line, in addition to importing Flask, capital F, render template, let's also import request, which is a global variable that comes with the Flask framework. And then I'm going to use it as follows. I'm going to go ahead and say um a second argument to the render template function where I'm going to say placeholder equals request. Actually, let me not do that yet. Let me first create a variable name equals request args. And then let me go ahead and get the name key from the arguments. And then down here, let's go ahead and pass in placeholder equals name. So what am I doing here on line 8? I'm creating a variable called name. I'm storing in that the value that's in the request global variable in what's apparently a dictionary called args, specifically the name key therein. So if the thing after the question mark name equals is David, this should give me David. If it's Kelly, it should give me Kelly instead. Then what I'm doing is rendering this template called index.html, but I'm additionally passing in some named parameters. We talked briefly about that in week six when we introduced the idea that Python can take not only a commaepparated list of arguments, but some of which can have names. So I'm proposing that one such name of an argument to this render template function can be placeholder for instance. Now, at the moment, this code isn't going to do anything useful. If I go back indeed to the other tab, click reload after zooming in, even with my name in the URL, you'll see that we still see hello, David. But here's where things now get interesting. And here too is what we mean by template. If I go back into VS Code, open up index.html again, and instead of putting the word world there, what I'd like to see is not hello world, but hello, placeholder. But of course, if I literally type that, I'm going to see literally placeholder unless I surround placeholder with pairs of curly braces like this. And by using these pairs of curly braces, I'm telling Flask that I want to interpolate, so to speak, that variable. I want to substitute in its value. So this is yet another syntax. In Python, we saw fstrings. In C, we saw percent s. When using something like print f in an HTML file, when using flask specifically, we use these pair of curly braces to denote this is indeed a placeholder whose value should be plugged in. So now let's go back over to the second tab. Recall if I zoom in that passed in already to this URL is question mark name equals David. And this time when I click reload, voila, now I see my actual name. And unlike the JavaScript examples last week which were doing everything client side, notice here if I go to uh rightclick or control-click and view page source, what's noteworthy today is that David in this case literally came from the server. This was not rendered client side. The server sent this HTML and specifically this text. So, if I go back to the same tab here, zoom in and change David for instance to Kelly, what I should see instead when I hit enter is hello, Kelly. And indeed, if I go back to the source code and reload the page there, I should see in the view page source that the server sent indeed hello, Kelly. So, it's in this sense that it's an application. The URL is providing input to the application by way of this URL format, the so-called get for uh the get string that's being passed in. And if I look at the code that I'm running, app.py is the code that's running. It is grabbing that name from the URL. I am then passing it into my index.html file and then my HTML file is plugging the actual value in for me. And so what's going on with for instance these curly braces? Well, here too is where we're actually using a library. And included in Flask is another library called Ginga. And Ginga is what's called a templating library. And there's so many templating libraries in the world. Ginga is actually fairly s simple, which is nice. And which is why Flask uses it. And for now, you can just think of Ginga as being the library that knows how to interpolate variables inside of pairs of curly braces. So why are we introducing yet another frame, another library? of all the folks who implemented Flask decided that it was not worth their time reinventing the wheel of a templating language, a language via which you can figure out what values to plug in where. So they just lean on another library that someone else wrote years prior so as to not reinvent that wheel themselves. And that's all that's going on with a framework. In this case, it's using perhaps multiple libraries instead. All right. So what then is a template? So this then is a template. What you're looking at here, hello, placeholder, is a template in the sense that it's kind of the blueprint for the web page I want the user to see, but it's going to be dynamically generated using indeed this blueprint by plugging in the value of placeholder inside of those pairs of curly braces. And so that's why index.html starting today is in a folder called templates because this is not just static HTML like the stuff we wrote last week. This is the uh the the the blueprint for the actual HTML that we want the browser to spit out. But there's a bug here. Notice what's going to happen here. If I go up to this URL and I get rid of the name altogether, for instance, I just visit the slash route without any key value pairs and hit enter. This is sort of bad bad request. It's an HTTP 400. In fact, if you look at the tab, here's another HTTP status code that we probably haven't seen before. But 400 just means the user did something wrong by not passing in the parameter that was expected. Well, that's a little bad design if like the user has to manually type in things to the URLs. Like no human actually does that. That's not good for business or customers in general. So I can go back into app.py and just make a little bit of conditional code here. And here's too where we see what makes this an application and not just a static page. Instead of just blindly getting the name here, I could instead do something like this. Well, if the name parameter is in request.orgs, and this is just Python syntax for asking if this key is in this dictionary, then I'm going to go ahead and define name and set it equal to request.orgs quote unquote name. Else, if there is no name in the request, well, then I might as well give some default value like name equals quote unquote world. And that alone logically makes sure that I only try to access request.org's name if the key is actually there. So, if I go back to the browser now, reload without anything else in the URL. Now, we're back in business and it's saying hello, world. But if I go up to the URL bar and add name equals David, enter, that too now works. So, it's a web application in the sense that not only does it have function calls as well as a variable, but now we've got some conditional logic with boolean expressions as well. All right, questions on anything we've done thus far because it was a lot all at once. Questions thus far? Yeah. &gt;&gt; Good question. Let's try that. What if I just did question mark name equals nothing? Well, let me go back to that other tab. Uh, delete the name David and hit enter. And I indeed see hello, nothing. Why? Because the name key is provided now. It just doesn't have a value. And so the conditional has the same answer. Well, yes, name is in request.orgs, but there's just no value associated with it. And here again is the value or a hint at the value of using a framework like flask. The fact that I can just import the request global variable and then ask questions like is this parameter in this dictionary means I don't have to write any of the code that like figures out what the URL looks like, break it apart between the question mark and the equal signs and any amperands therein. That's all sort of generic logic that every web application has to do. So again, Flask is sort of doing that lift for me and I can just focus on the logic that I actually care about. All right. Well, a quick convention here. It's I've used the word placeholder here just to kind of hit the nail on the head and make clear this is a placeholder, but frankly it's a little more readable stylistically to not just put hello generic placeholder, but to say something like hello, name so that a colleague or even myself looking at this file down the line knows that okay, we're trying to print out the user's name here. That's fine. You can change the name of these variables to be anything you want. And even though it looks weird, it's conventional in Flask to do something like this. Name equals name. But each of these names means something different. This is the name of the placeholder that I'm going to put in my actual template. This is the value that I actually want to give it. And it just keeps me a little ser by just reusing the same name instead of calling it placeholder or placeholder 1, placeholder 2, placeholder 3, or something generic like that. Now it's just a little clear even though it looks weird to say name equals name. Again, that just allows me to do this in my template. All right. Well, what more can I do after that? Well, let me propose that we can actually go in and simplify this code a little bit. It turns out this is so common to just ask a question as to whether the parameter is there and then do something with it or not that flask comes with some logic to do this. And in fact, I can get rid of all four of these lines. Just go ahead and with confidence declare a variable called name, set it equal to request.orgs, arcs, but in the so-called dictionary, use a function called get that comes with it, which technically doesn't relate to the verb that was used by HTTP. This just means literally get me the following. And if you want to get the parameter called name, you literally just say quote unquote name. However, in case there is no name parameter, you can also give this function a default value like world. And so now we've collapsed into four lines uh from four lines into one that exact same logic. So this gets me the HTTP parameter called name. But if it's not there, it gives me a default value of world. So that no matter what, this name variable has what I care about. Indeed, if I go back over here, let's type in how about name equals David again. Enter. That's there. If I type in uh no name, enter. That too is now working as well. All right. Well, let's see if we can refine this a bit more. Let me propose that in our next version of this. Let's introduce a second route. So two URLs. Much like uh Google has many different URLs as does most any web application. At the moment, I'm doing everything in my slash route. So how might I move away from this? Well, let me go ahead and not only add a second route, but an actual form via which the user can type in their their name. So to do this, let me propose that in index.html, HTML. Instead of just printing out the user's name and trusting that they're going to have typed their name in manually to the URL, which again is not normal behavior, let's actually show the user a form via which they can do exactly that. So here's my form tag. Uh let's say the method I'm going to use is get so that I see everything in the URL. Let's give myself an input uh that whose name is name because this is the human's name. And notice somewhat confusingly, this name on the left is the HTTP, sorry, this name on the left is the HTML attribute that we saw last week. So, it's different from what we just did in Python, even though they're all called the same thing. The type of this input is going to be text. And let's go ahead and make this a little more user friendly. Let's put some placeholder text called name, so the human knows what what to type in. Let's go ahead and disable autocomplete just so we don't see previous input into this text box. And let's autofocus it so that the cursor is blinking in the text box by default. Then lastly, let's go ahead and have a button the type of which is submit. So that clicking this button actually submits the form. And I'm just going to call this button like greet because I want the user to be able to greet themselves by clicking this button. Now I should specify action. The only other time we used action is when we actually went to httpsw.google.com/ google.com/arch that's not relevant today because I'm trying to print hello world not search for cats and such but this is where I too have control if I want to submit this form to a specific location on in my web application action is where I can specify it so why don't I pretend that there exists a route in my application called /greet and if you go to example.com/greet question mark name equals David this now will greet the user with hello David for instance, but slashgreet does not exist. If we go back to app.py, literally the only route that currently exists is single slash, but I can change that. I can go into my uh app.py as I have here and below this function, I can go ahead and define app.rout quote unquote /greet and just invent any route that I want. I can then define a function that will be called whenever that route is visited. By convention, to keep myself sane, I'm going to call the function the same thing as the route, but you don't have to do this. It's just to minimize uh decisions I have to make. And then in this function, what I'm going to do is this. Return render template greet.html, which doesn't exist yet, but that's a problem to be solved. And then I can pass in the name of the user. I'm going to go ahead and save myself a line of code and just say request.orgs.get quote unquote name, world. In other words, strictly speaking, I don't need that variable on its own line. This has the effect of what we already did in index, but I'm doing it all in one elegant oneliner. And now in index, in so far as I want the index of the site to just show the user the form via which they can type in their name, this one's easy now. Render template quote unquote index.html and return that template. So to recap, here's index.html, HTML which is now a form instead of a template for hello, such and such. App.py is going to return that template whenever I visit the index or slash of the page. And then this greet route is going to handle the case of printing out greet.html passing in the user's name. All right, I think I'm not quite good to go yet, but let's try this out. Let me go back to my browser tab, reload, and there we have it. I have a web form now instead of the uh the hello, soando, I'm going to go ahead and type in my name. And notice the URL at the moment, even though Chrome is hiding it, technically it's there slash, but Chrome and most browsers today sort of hide as much stuff as they can if it's not all that intellectually interesting. But watch what happens when I click greet to the URL. It automatically sends me to /Greet question mark name equals David. And this is just like the way the forms worked last week when we recreated our own version of Google in search.html because the action there was google.com/arch. The user was whisked away to Google server. Today I stay on the same server because the action I used was quite simply slashgree which is assumed to be on my own server. But clearly I screwed something up because I have a big internal server error in front of me as you soon will too. Odds are as you dive into this uh 500 is the status code that means your fault somehow. Now why is that? Well, it's unclear from this generic black and white message. However, because I'm the developer, I can go back to VS Code, open my terminal window, and recall that I have two terminals open now. One that I can type stuff in, the other of which is still running from before. Let me open up that one. And you'll see if I maximize my terminal window, a whole bunch of scary error messages here. But the relevant one is probably going to be, let's see, down here. Race template not found error. Ginga exceptions template not found. Greet.h. html. So there's a lot of esoteric error messages here, more so than usual, but the simple fact is that I just screwed up and I did not create greet.html. So file not found by the server. So the user doesn't see all that complexity. That's deliberate by design. It's generally not good for cyber security. if you're revealing to the user all of the error messages that are happening on your server because maybe that suggests they can hack in some way some way by taking advantage of those error messages and the information implicit in them. But they are there in your terminal window to actually see and diagnose. So how do I fix this? Well, not a problem. Let me shrink my terminal window back down. Let me code a file called greet.html. And in greet.html, let's create the template via which I'm going to greet the user, which ironically is the exact same as index.html HTML used to be. So, let me recreate that real quick. Uh, doc type HTML. Let me close my terminal. HTML lang equals en uh head uh title hello body hello, and there's my uh here's my placeholder hello, name. So, to be clear, the index.html template doesn't have any curly braces or anything dynamic. It just spits out the HTML for the form. Greek.html HTML spits out HTML and the actual greeting. And it's app.py that decides which of these to show the user. Either index.html if they visit the slash route or greet.html if they somehow find their way to the /greet route, which they will automatically by simply submitting that form. All right, so let's go back into this internal server error and go back to the form. Nothing has changed with the form, but now when I type in David click greet, not only will the URL change to be slashgreet question mark name equals David, I actually now see the content that I expected a moment ago. All right. Well, now it's a opportunity to critique. I have these two templates open, index.html and greet.html. And even if you've never done web programming before and even if you've never did HTML before last week, what is bad about this design intuitively? &gt;&gt; Say again. &gt;&gt; Abstraction. &gt;&gt; Abstraction in what sense? &gt;&gt; Yes. So that's exactly the the hangup I have here. There's a lot of duplication. And technically I didn't copy paste though I might as well have because notice as I very hintingly go back and forth almost every line of code in these files is the same except for the form which is there or not there or the hello comma like all of the boilerplate HTML namely everything I just highlighted here lines one through seven in greet.html HTML and this and this is what we really start to mean about a template. Like wouldn't it be nice if we could factor out all of that HTML that's common to both files, put it in literally a template that both routes can use so that I can write that boilerplate code once instead of again and again. Cuz imagine in your mind's eye, well, if I have three routes or four routes or five routes, I'm going to be like typing the same darn HTML three, four, five times. That's got to be dumb and that's got to be solvable as we've seen in other languages as well. So, let me indeed go ahead and try to improve this. And the syntax is a little weird, but it's the kind of thing you get used to quite quickly. I'm going to go ahead and create a third HTML file now by going back to my terminal window inside still my templates directory. And by convention, this file is going to be called layout.html. Why this? That's what the flask documentation tells you to do. So, in layout.html, HTML. I can pull all of my boilerplate HTML, the stuff that is invariant and doesn't change. So, here we go. Doc type HTML uh HTML tag lang equals en close bracket open bracket head open bracket title. We'll call it hello for all of the pages. Open bracket body. And here's where it gets interesting. The body is the only thing that has been changing in these two examples. In index.html, it was a web form. In greet.html, HTML. It was just a simple string of hello, so and so. So, what I want to tell Flask is that everything in the body will just be a dynamic block of code. And the syntax for that, which takes a little bit getting used to, but it's also sort of copy-pasteable. Block body using percent signs this time. And because I don't want any such body in the template, I'm going to literally close this block as follows. And here you see another example of sort of HTML like syntax but instead of using angled brackets, Ginga uh the templating library that Flask uses uses curly brace and percent sign to open the tag and then the opposite to close it. So what you really have here are two Ginga tags as we'll call them. This one is called block and I'm defining an arbitrary name here. I could have called it foo bar or baz but because I want this block to refer to the body of the page by convention I'm going to call it body. And then this weird syntax which is used in some other languages too just means end whatever block you just began. And so again you just see reasonable people disagreeing. The people who invented HTML use nice angled brackets and words like these. The people who came up with ginger used curly braces and percent signs. Why? Well, odds are these are not normal symbols that a human would type when writing uh code, at least in HTML. So they just chose something that probably wouldn't collide with actual syntax the human wants to use. So that's it for the template. This is now a uh this is essentially a blueprint that doesn't have just a placeholder for a single word or value like name. I can put a whole chunk of code here now instead. And how do I do that? Well, let me go into index.html with the moment which at the moment is a little duplicative in that it's got all of this boilerplate. So you know what? I'm going to go ahead and delete everything that is already in my layout both above and below that web form. And now I'm going to use a bit more ginger syntax. This too takes a little while to memorize or copy paste. But if I want index.html to use the layout.html blueprint, I can simply say extends layout.html and then close tag using percent sign close bracket here. And then if what I want to plug into that layout is the following code, I can say as before block uh body and then down here I can say end block. And that's it. And just to be a little nitpicky, I'm going to de-indent that slightly. And now even though it looks like web pages suddenly look a lot uglier. Well, they do because like this is weird looking syntax, but I have now distilled index.html into its essence. This is the only thing that changes visav the greeting page. And so I've put my HTML here that I care about. I've said to Flask, this is what index.html's body block shall be. Where to put it? Well, put it into that particular layout.html file. And so the logic for greet.html is the same thing. It's going to look just as weird, but again, you get used to it. Let's go ahead and delete everything that's boilerplate in greet.html, both above and below. up at the top. Let's tell Flask that greet.html 2 extends layout.html. And let's go ahead and say to Flask that the block uh called body shall be this for greet.html. And the end of this block is now down here. And just to be nitpicky, I'll de-indent that too. So again, the pages look a little weirder now, but it's going to follow a paradigm that we just see again and again, such that the only juicy stuff is what's inside of that body block. So now, if I go back to my layout, it looks exactly like this. This indeed is a placeholder, not just for a single variable like name or the placeholder we did before. This is the placeholder for a whole block of code that came from a file, not from a variable. And so if I go back into my other tab here, go click back to go back to the web form and reload. Notice that I have the familiar looking form. But if I now look at my developer or if I look at view page source, notice everything that came from the web page from the server. Here's that boiler plate up here. Here's that boiler plate down here. And here's the stuff that's unique to this page. And recall too, aesthetically I de-indented it, which is why it's now no longer pretty printed in what the browser sees. Like that's okay. There's no reason to obsess over the indentation and the pretty printing of what the browser sees. Ultimately, the reason I did this indentation is because arguably when I'm in VS Code here and I look at index.html, this is clearly indented inside of the body block just so I know what's part of that block. The browser does not care about superfluous whites space or less thereof. All right, questions on what we've just done here, which is to truly take this template out for a spin and now remove what redundancies I had accidentally introduced. Questions? No. Okay. Amazing. All right. Well, let's go ahead and look at this URL again. I'm not liking the fact that every example we've done thus far involves putting my name or Kelly's name right there in the URL bar. Well, why is that? Well, if I have like a nosy sibling and they sit down at my browser, they're going to see like every URL I visited, including whose name was greeted. Now, that's not all that big a deal, but now imagine it's a username and a password that the form is submitting or a credit card number that the form is submitting or just search terms that you don't want the world knowing you're searching for. They're going to end up in the URL bar. Why? If you are using method equals get for the form, that's how get works. It literally puts all of the HTTP parameters in the URL, which is wonderfully useful if it's sort of uh low stake stuff like the Google search box or if it is um or potentially low stake stuff like the Google search box or if you just want to be able to hyperlink directly to a URL like this. In other words, if I put this into an anchor tag open bracket a href and a URL like this, I could deep link a user to a web page that just always says hello, David. So get strings contain all of the requisite information to render a page for the user. But this isn't really good for privacy. So recall that there's not only get, but there's also something called post. And post is just a different HTTP verb that essentially with respect to those virtual envelopes next last week sort of puts the information more deeply inside of the envelope such that it's not written right there in the URL bar, but it's still accessible by the server. So if I do this, watch what happens. Let me uh go back into VS Code. Let me go back into index.html which has the form. And let me quite simply change the method from get to post. And now let me go back to my other browser tab. Back to the form and reload so that the form knows that the method has changed. Now type in David and click greet. And before I do that, let me zoom in on the URL bar. Notice that the URL does change. I'm at slashgreet, but I haven't revealed to the world or to anyone with physical access to my browser what URL I just searched for. All they know is that I went to /greet, but not the key value pair or pairs that were passed in. Of course, this clearly hasn't worked. I've got an HTTP status code of 405, which means method not allowed. That's because flask by default when defining routes simply assumes that you want get instead of post. Now, get is good for the default page. In fact, when I go back here, this is equivalent to me visiting the slash route just in the browser. So, I want my index to generally support get, but the greet route should support post. And the simplest way to do this is to pass in another argument to the route function, which we haven't needed before because the default is get. And I can instead tell flask a commaepparated list of the HTTP methods that I want this route to support. So if I wanted to support just post, I can pass in a list containing just post. And recall FL uh Python uses square brackets for lists, which are their version of arrays in C. Now by default, this argument is this methods equals get. And that's why the only thing supported a moment ago was get. That's why I'm now changing it to be post instead. I have to make one other change though. It turns out if you read the documentation when accessing HTTP parameters via post instead of get you move from using request.orgs to request form. This is completely unintuitive that request.orgs is get and request.form is post because they all come from forms. So it's bad naming admittedly. So you just kind of have to remember request.orgs is used for get. Request form is used for post. So all I need to do further is change this to be request.form and that's it. Now my web application will support web form submitting to it via post instead of get. Let me go ahead and type in my name. Now I'll zoom in. Notice that the URL will again change to /greet with no parameters evident. But I will be greeted this time because the server knew to look deeper into that envelope for those key value pairs instead. And just to be now uh sort of diagnostic about this, let me go back once more. Let me rightclick or control-click on my desktop and go to inspect. Here's where developer tools can be super useful as well. I'm going to go in here and I'm going to go ahead and clear this. And now I'm going to type in David again and I'm going to click greet. But because I have the network tab open like we played with last week, it's going to show me all of the requests going from my browser to server, which is going to be useful here because not only do I see, okay, it obviously worked because I got back a 200, but if I click on this diagnostic output, I can actually go to the payload tab here and I'll see that the form data that was submitted was name, the value of which was David. So you can see what you're submitting. So you can do this today like if you want to log into some website uh Gmail or otherwise you can actually see all of the data that your own keyboard is submitting to the server even if it's using post because the browser that you control of course can see the same there. All right, any questions now on this transition from get to post kind of on a roll or not going so well. We'll see. All right, so what more can we do with this? Well, let's give ourselves a couple more building blocks before we transition to actually implementing some real world problems as I did years ago with one such example. Suppose that I don't like this direction I'm going in in so far as every time I have a page with a form, it submits to another route altogether. Cuz in your mind's eye, just kind of extrapolate. Well, if I have two forms on my page, I now need four routes. If I have three forms, I need six routes. It seems a little annoying that you use one route just to show the form and another route to process the form. This is going to get annoying over time because it's like twice as many routes as might be ideal. So, is there a way to get kind of the best of both worlds and combine these two routes into one so that everything related to greeting the user all happens in one place? Well, you can as follows. What I'm going to go ahead and do is delete my greet route al together and most of my index route. But I'm going to ask a question. I'm going to first say that the methods that the index route support now shall be both get and post as a commaepparated list there. And then inside of my index route I can simply ask a question of the form if the request that is submitted to the server has a method of post then assume that form was submitted. This is just a Python comment note to self that I'm going to come back to in a moment. else if the request method is not post. So I could technically say if l if uh l if request method equals equals get then but this is kind of dumb because I only support two verbs. So I might as well just assume for efficiency else handles the get implicitly then go ahead and assume that no form was submitted. So show form. So just notes to self as to what I want to do. So how do I show the form? Well this line was easy. return render template of index.html. If though the form was submitted, what do I want to do? Well, just as before, let's return render template greet.html passing in a name value of request.form.get quote unquote name else a default value of world. So, the exact same logic from each of the two functions a moment ago, but I've now combined them into one by just using some conditional logic and just asking the server if the user got here via post, well, the only way they could have gotten here via post is by having clicked that button and submitted the form. So, let's just go ahead and greet them. Else, if they got here via get by just typing in example.com or whatever the actual URL is, let's go ahead and show them the template. So, it's still good design in that I have a separate template for each of these pieces of functionality that is only minimally different, but I'm sort of deciding which of those to show based on the actual logic in this here app. All right, so this is almost perfect except for one bug. What else needs to change if I've just combined my greet route and this default slash route as well? Yeah. So, in the form that has index.html, recall that there's an action line that specifies like to what URL do you want to submit this? Well, let me go back to index.html. It can't be /greet anymore because that doesn't exist. So, I'm just going to delete the word greet and submit it to slash instead, which will have the effect of also just omitting it entirely. If you don't specify an action, it submits to the very location that it came from. But if you want to be pedantic and even more clear, just specifying that the action now of this form is just this, then that will work here, too. All right, so let's test it. Let's go back to the other tab. Back to the form, reload. It's blank now. I type in David. Click greet. And this two is working. But again, if I go back and reload, get is working as well. But there's nothing ending up in the URL because I'm now using post, which again tends to be a good thing for privacy reasons as well. Let me show one final flourish before we transition to something realworld motivated. If I go into app.py, for a while now, I've been passing in this default value of world, which is fine, especially if it's something short and sweet. That's the default value. But I can actually put a bit of conditional logic in my template as well. So, in fact, let me go into greet.html HTML and trust that I will now be passed in a name variable. But I can decide for myself in the template whether I want to say hello name or if it's blank hello world instead. And how might I do this? Well, I can always say hello, but then I'm going to use some Ginga syntax that we haven't seen yet. But it turns out in Ginga, the templating language that Flask uses, you can use Python-like syntax too. And you can ask questions like well if uh the name variable has a value well then go ahead and output the value of that name. Else if the name variable does not have a value go ahead and output a literal value like world. Uh and then down here end if. So ginger again is a little weird in that it says end block end if but that's the way it is. But even though this looks a little weird, it's just a nice clever way of putting a bit of logic into my template. And if the name has a value, so it's not empty or none, go ahead and display it. Hence the curly braces. Else go ahead and literally say world. Why is it not problematic? And you can see the dots here that there's all of this white space after the word hello, like otherwise this would seem to create quite a messy paragraph or phrase of text in terms of whites space. But &gt;&gt; HTML ignore ignores superfluous whites space. So anything more than a single space just gets canonicalized or collapsed into a single space. And we saw that recall last week accidentally when I had those three paragraphs of of text uh from uh from the duck, but I wanted them deliberately to be separate paragraphs and they weren't because all of that white space was ignored until I actually introduced the uh paragraph tag instead. So this just moves some of that logic. now to the templates. So for all this logic and more, here's the official documentation for Flask and specifically Ginga's own documentation, but for the most part, we've seen what's possible already. And I promised a real world example. So here now it is. So uh back when I took CS50 as a sophomore, there was no web programming in the class. And frankly, there was barely any web actually in the world because it was all so new HTML and the like. But uh it was my sophomore, spring maybe or junior fall that I also got involved in the freshman inter mural sports program or frost IM's for short. And back in the day uh we would walk from say Matthews Hall to Wigglesworth uh freshman year at least to register for sports by filling out what was called a sheet of paper and then you would go to the proctor's dorm room and slide it like under their door or through the mail slot and that's how we registered for sports. It was sort of ripe for disruption before that was even a phrase. And so one of the very first projects I took on myself personally after taking CS50 was to figure out how web programming worked. And Python wasn't really a wasn't a thing yet uh nor was half of the topics we've been talking about thus far. But at the time I learned a programming language called Pearl. I learned a little something about CSV files which we did a couple of weeks back too. And I built this the freshman intramural sports website via which you could click on a bunch of links and get some information. But most importantly, you could register for sports as by typing in your name, selecting the sport for which you want to register, click submit, and no longer walk across Harvard Yard with a piece of paper to actually register for sports. So, we thought we'd use this as sort of the beginning of a motivation for how we can now solve problems using web- based interfaces using code. Um, and also what not to do, like background images that repeat like this are not really in fashion anymore, nor arguably in 1997. Um but let's leave that as a cliffhanger and come back in 10 minutes after a snack with re-implementing the frost IM's website. All right, we are back. So among the goals now are to recreate the beginnings of a site like this for frost IMS whereby we want to enable students to uh visit a form, fill out that form and submit it to a server and then register. And we'll dispense with all of the amazing graphics and such and keep it fairly simplistic and core HTML. So let's go ahead and do this. Back here in VS Code, I've gotten ready now for this next set of examples. And in particular, I've created in advance a directory called frost im.py, requirements.ext, and templates, which are essentially the same as the ones we just created, but I stripped out the hello and greeting specific stuff. I'm going to go ahead in this terminal and do flask run. So, I get the server up and running again on port 5000. And then I'm going to go ahead and open up another terminal here as I did before. cd into frost ims in that terminal where I'll see the exact same files and I'll give you a quick tour of what I created in advance. So here in app.py is quite simply the simplest of applications that just renders the index.html template with an expectation in a moment that we're going to make it more interesting than that. Meanwhile, if I open my temp uh my terminal again and open up requirements.txt, it just mentions flask, but it's already installed. So no more to say about that for now. Now, let me go ahead lastly and open up templates, uh, the templates folder. Two files there in the first of which is layout.html, which looks almost the same, except I did add a slightly more userfriendly tag to the head of the page, which you might not have seen before, but this is a tag that essentially you can copy and paste into templates of your own that help the content of a page resize to be mobile friendly. In fact, without this line, if you were to develop problem set 9 or your final project for the web and then try to access the site on a phone, everything might look quite a bit too small, font sizes and more, this line tends to help the browsers resize dynamically so that it actually matches the width of the devices own width. For instance, a phone versus a laptop or desktop. But otherwise, everything else is the same there, including the placeholder for the body block that I've defined here on line 9. Lastly, there's one more file that at the moment doesn't do anything all that interesting except is ready to contain the contents of the registration form for frost IM. So, let's go ahead and start with actually that. Let me quickly whip up a form that minimally gives the user something that they can submit to the server to register for sports and then we'll improve upon it a bit iteratively. So, here inside of the body of index.html, html which is going to extend the actual layout, the blueprint we already created. I'm going to have a quick title for the page like register just to make clear to the student what they need to do using the H1 which is the big and bold tag. Then I'm going to go ahead and have a form tag uh whose uh action is going to be anything I want, but since I want the user to register, I'm going to have it go to slashregister, which makes more sense semantically than greet now because we're doing something else. The method I'm going to have the student use is post, if only because they don't want their roommates knowing what they visited in their browser. So this way it will tuck the HTTP parameters deeper in that virtual envelope so it's not stored in the browser's history. Inside of this form, I'm going to have minimally an input box for the student's name. So I'll call that aptly name and set name equal to name in my HTML. The type of this text box will be exactly that text. And then just to make it a little more user friendly, I'm going to add a placeholder of name so they know what to do. I'm going to go ahead and uh turn off autocomplete in case multiple roommates want to uh sign in from the same computer, register from the same computer. And then we'll turn on autofocus to put the cursor in that name box. And then, and you didn't see this last week, but if you've ever wondered how drop-own menus are implemented in HTML, if you've never done this yourself, those drop-own menus on web pages are called select menus. And if I want the user to select a sport to register for, I'm going to call this input a uh sport. And this is an alternative to just having a generic text box where we have the students type in the sport they want to register for which would be fraught with typographical errors and changes in capitalization. A drop-own menu of course standardizes what the human can select. So inside of this dropdown I'm going to have a few options. uh the first of which uh will be uh basketball for instance, the second of which will be soccer and the third of which I think was the first three with which we debuted back in the day was ultimate frisbee. Now these option tags can take some attributes. Uh by default they will take on the value of whatever words are typed in between the open and close tags. But just to be pedantic I'm going to make clear that the value of selecting this option shall be basketball. But I could change it to be something else if I so chose. The value of this selection will be soccer and the value of this last option will be ultimate frisbee just in case I want to store something else in my database ultimately. Now that is a complete index.html I think. So if I go back to uh my browser tab which previously was showing me the hello program because I stopped and restarted Flask and you can stop flask by just hitting C uh for interrupting it. I'm going to reload the page and I should now see okay a slightly more interesting form with a name box with the uh cursor is blinking there and then a select menu a dropown with three options. Now it's a little presumptuous of me to select basketball by default and in fact this is kind of inviting user error if they type in their name don't really think about it and now register for basketball accidentally. So I'm going to make a couple of improvements here. I'm actually gonna have essentially a blank option at the top whose value is nothing and I'm gonna have it just labeled sport. And just to be super clear, I'm going to select this value by default. So the option tag in HTML supports not only a value attribute, but it turns out a selected attribute, which if present means that's the option that will be selected by default. So if we go back now to this page and reload to get a new copy of the HTML, looks a little better. I still have the name at left, but the sport now menu looks like this. So, it's a little more clear what I want them to do from this dropdown. And sport deliberately on the back end won't have a value. And theoretically, this will help me determine if they actually selected a sport or just clicked register and ignored the drop down still. But I do need a way for them to register ideally by clicking a button. So, I'm going to add a button, the type of which is submit. And then I'm going to have this button's label be register. So now if I go back to the form once more, reload, I now have I think a complete form, albeit not very pretty, via which David can register, for instance, for basketball by clicking register. And ah darn it, I have a 404 not found. But why is that? Why is nothing yet found? Why is slashregister not found? Yeah, &gt;&gt; what's that? &gt;&gt; I haven't Well, I haven't linked the option to anything. I think the form has been linked. Whoops. The form is telling the browser to go to slregister. So, this is correct behavior. But if we go to app.py, like there's no route defined for slregister. So, of course, it's not found because there's an infinite number of routes that don't exist and register is currently among those. So, I can define that myself. I can say app.root quote unquote register. Uh, I do want to use post. So I need to proactively say that the methods this uh function will support will be indeed post instead of the default of get. I'm going to define an actual function to call when this route is used. And by convention I'm going to call it just register even though I could call it anything I want. And inside of my register function, well for now I'm going to cheat a little bit. I'm going to at least just say uh I'm going to at least check that the user has given me a name and a sport. So how can I express this? Well, because I have already imported the request global variable that comes with flask, I can ask questions of it. And I can say something like if it is not the case that request.form.getame has a value or if it's the case that or if it's not the case that request.form.getport has a value, then let's go ahead and give the user uh a warning of sorts. I'll return render template of a file called failure.html. This doesn't exist yet, but no big deal. Let me go back into my terminal. Let me uh go into templates and create a file And in this file, I'm going to say that it extends uh layout.html.html. And then it has a block body inside of which is going to be something like super trivial for now, just to get us going. And this failure page is simply going to say you are not registered exclamation point and then end block. So that's it. Just sort of an error page that now exists. I'm going to close it out of sight, out of mind. But I think this now will work. If it is not the case that the user gave us a name or it's not the case that the user gave us a sport, we will show this error message. Otherwise, if all seems to be well, for now, we're not going to do anything useful with the information, but I'm going to go ahead and return render template of success.html, which is simply going to assume that the user was successfully registered. So, let's whip that up quickly. Uh, I'm going to go ahead and code up success.html inside of this file, which will similarly extend uh layout.html inside of which there's a body block that quite simply says, "How about you are registered?" and we'll just pretend that it is so and block. So that's it. In short, I want the two templates that show failure or success respectively. So I think now in app.py, we're in better shape. I now have a register route that will get called if post is used to visit it. And I'm going to check request.form, which is where you get the post variables from. Check whether name or sport is provided. And I'm going to render a template accordingly. So let's try this. Let me go back to my other tab and go back to the form. Let me type in my name, David, but no sport. Click register, and I have an internal server error, which was not intended. So, let's figure out how to diagnose this. So, it seems to be the case that I'm at /register. That was intended, but something clearly went wrong. So, let's go back. Now, I could just kind of stare at my code endlessly, but recall that there should be some hints in my terminal window that's running Flask. So, let me go back to my other terminal, and there it is. Unexpected char double quote at line 11. Well, look, sounds like user error. So, that is in failure.html. And you can kind of see it because Flask is like underlining it literally for me. What did I do that was stupid? Yeah, I just didn't close my quote. So, amateur hour here. So, let me go into I do need to open it after all, ironically. So, let's go ahead in my other terminal, open up failure.html. And there it is. One stupid character away from correctness. All right, let's close this again. Go back to the other tab. Let's try this again. David as my name but no sport. Register. Okay, you are not registered. I don't know why, but I know I'm not registered. Let's try it again with a name. Uh with no name, but yes, a sport. Click register. You are not registered. All right, just for good measure, let's give no name and no sport. You are not registered. So, that seems to be working. Let's now cooperate. Let's go ahead and register as David for basketball. Cross my fingers. Damn it. And internal server error. Let's try to learn from my past mistakes. Let's open up this eyeball it. I did it twice even though that was not copy paste. So 0 for two. All right, let's go back here. Notice now I can actually just click reload because the browser is smart enough to remember what I just posted to the server. So if I click reload, you'll be prompted to confirm the form submission less you be doing this on a website with your credit card or something where you don't want to send it twice. But in this case, I'm fine with sending my name and basketball twice. So I'm going to click continue. And this time it worked telling me that I'm actually registered. So I'm not doing anything with the students data, but at least I am validating that they gave me some input. Now there's a catch here. The catch of course with HTML is that it's all executed s client side. And so for instance, suppose that a student is really upset that we only offer basketball, soccer, and ultimate frisbee. And maybe they really want to register for volleyball even though we're not offering volleyball. Well, there's arguably like a security vulnerability here where technically my code right now will tolerate any user input even if it's not in that dropdown because after all, let me go ahead and rightclick or control-click on my web page and open up the developer tools. Let me go into the form as sort of a hacker type student. Let me go into the select menu and okay, no big deal. If I want uh ultimate frisbee to exist, well, I just need to know a little HTML. I'm going to rightclick on that element and click edit as HTML. This literally lets me start editing the HTML of the page. I'm going to give myself my own option. Option value equals volleyball. Close bracket volleyball. Uh, enter. And now when I close developer tools, woohoo, I can register for volleyball if I want. So let's select volleyball. Type in maybe Kelly is hacking the site. Register. And she is registered for volleyball apparently. All right. So the short answer is the short the takeaway here is do not trust user input ever for reasons we've already seen when we discuss SQL ever more so now that we're dealing with the web because who knows what users are going to do accidentally foolishly or even in Kelly's case here maliciously trying to pass data that we did not expect. So what would be the defense against this? Like this is just how HTML works and assume that I'm actually registering Kelly for sports now and somehow she's now signed up for volleyball in our database. What would a solution be logically here? &gt;&gt; Yeah. So maybe do some server side validation. So don't just blindly check that we have a value from the user. Actually check that it's one of those sports. So if I go back to app.py, I could do this in a few ways. And maybe my first instinct would be this. Let's check for the name and do this. But let's also do this. Like if request form.get get quote unquote uh sport. And actually, let's put this in a variable just to make it even easier to type. So, sport equals this. If sport uh how about does not equal uh what was it? Basket ball and sport does not equal uh soccer and sport does not equal quote unquote ultimate frisbee, then render an error. So, uh, return render template quote unquote failure.html. So, now if I go back to this form and try to register as Kelly again, you are not registered. So, I somehow caught her because volleyball of course is not in the list of sports that I put there. But what might you not like about this approach? Even if you've never done web stuff before, what's bad about this? &gt;&gt; Yeah, I have to hardcode every single sport now in not only app.py PI to check for the validity on the server of what the humanness has typed in. But recall that the drop down itself came from index.html. So I now in duplicate have to put like all of the sports there too. So like this just seems bad to have duplication. And so better might be to do something more like this at the top of my file here. Why don't I go ahead and just give myself a global variable which in the context of this web app is perfectly reasonable. So I can access it anywhere. Let's call it sports in all caps just to note that this is a global variable in constant. Even though Python does not have consts in the sense that C does, but this is sort of on the honor system. If you see a variable in all caps like this, just don't mess with it. Use it, but don't mess with it. So, uh, inside of the square brackets, this is going to be a list of the sports that I do want to support. So, basket ball, uh, soccer, ultimate frisbee, and that's it. Now, instead of doing all of this, what I can instead ask is a simpler question like this. If sport not in sports, then go ahead and return render template quote And I can actually tighten this up a little bit. I don't need two calls to failure.html. Why don't I just borrow this code and say or uh sport not in sports render a failure. And now I've tightened this up quite a bit more, but I'm essentially using Python to just ask is the sport that Oops, sorry, I deleted too much. Sport equals actually, let's just tighten it up further. Sport does not exist. So let's do request.form.get quote unquote sport. So if the sport that the human typed in or selected from the drop down somehow is not in this global list of possible sports, well then it's a failure. Don't let Kelly or whoever register instead. But if I now have this global variable, I can be a bit smarter in my template. I don't need to manually write out all three of these sports here. Instead, I think I can be smart about this. And when I render index.html itself, why don't I just pass in a variable called sports for instance, set it equal to the value of that global array. And then in my template, and here's where templating again gets interesting and starts to save you time. Let me go into index.html, HTML delete all but the se default value the blank one and do something like this. Ginger it turns out also supports loops like Python for sports in sports using the curly braces and the percent signs. I can now dynamically generate options as many as I want. So option value equals quote unquote the current sport close uh quote there close bracket sport. So it's a little redundant but again this is just how HTML is. This is what the human sees. This is the value that gets submitted to the server in case you want one to differ from the other. And then below that option line, I can say end for which is a bit weird, but that's how it works in Ginga to stop that loop. So this is kind of powerful. Now if I have three sports, 30 sports, all of the options will be dynamically generated by this template. And so now we're starting to save ourselves time and I can centrally manage all the sports by just updating this global list here in app.py. So, let's go back to the browser, uh, back to the form, reload, and you'll see that the drop-down thankfully still works the same way, but all of those options were dynamically generated. Indeed, if I view page source from my browser, you'll see, and there's some extra whites space there because the loop was adding some whites space on each iteration, I still have the three sports, but not volleyball, as was my intention. So now if uh if Kelly even tries hacking this version of the site by going in here and select and typing in volleyball manually registering the logic will still catch it because only those three sports are in that array. So it's perfectly fine for me now to register for basketball because it's among the sports sorry in that list not array questions on any of these here techniques. All right how about another type of form? So, select menus are nice, but you also might see radio buttons on websites, which are the mutually exclusive little circles that you can select to choose one or another option. Uh, let me go back to index.html and just show you how those can be created as well. Instead of using a select menu, turns out we can create a whole bunch of inputs uh of radio type type as follows uh as of radio button type as follows. for each sport. So for sport in sports, let's go ahead and output in between this tag and the N4 the following input type equals radio uh and let's give it a name. The name of this radio box is going radio uh button is going to be sport and the value of the current input is going to be quote unquote sport. And the word that the human's going to see is as before sport. So notice it's just another type of input. Previously we've seen text for instance two lines above. We also saw last time search. We saw email. There's a bunch of text input types. This one though is going to display as a radio button instead. And the human is going to see this label here. If I now go back to my other browser tab and click back, click reload on the form. I should see it's not pretty, but it's a radio button in the sense that these are mutually exclusive. How does the browser know that I should only be allowed to select one of them? Well, because I use the same name for each of those radio buttons. It knows that means mutual exclusivity. In fact, if I view page source in the browser, you'll see that all three of the inputs that were dynamically generated, type equals radio, type equals radio, type equals radio, also have identical names. And so that's just how that works. And that's the only change necessary. If I now go ahead and type in my name, David Basketball, click register, we're still up and running because what the server gets is still exactly the same inside of request.form. They can access. You can still access name or sport no matter what type it was in the user's own browser. Questions on these techniques? All right. Right. Well, it's kind of obnoxious that when you don't do something right in this website, like forget your name, but do select a sport, all you are told is generically you are not registered. Like, it'd be nice and much more userfriendly, better UX, user experience, so to speak, to actually tell the user what's wrong so they can actually fix the problem. Now, there's a bunch of ways we can do this, but I'm going to propose that we go ahead and do this. Let's create a template called error.html, whose purpose in life is just to tell the user a little something more about what they did wrong. So, I'm going to go back into my terminal window here. I'm going to code up a file called error.html. Enter. And I'm going to go ahead and before as before extend uh layout.html, learning from my past mistakes and closing that quote. Then I'm going to go ahead and do body block down here. And then inside of this block body, I'm going to go ahead and have just some simple text like an H1 tag that just says error to the user. then a paragraph tag that's going to contain some error message to be determined. Uh and then uh that's it for now. So I've got the template for an error message screen. Let me go back into app.py now and let me add some logic because app.py does know what's wrong. It's just at the moment we're very generically returning a failure template instead of something more precise. But if I know that the user hasn't given me their name, well let me say that error message. So, let's actually get rid of these two lines and be a little more specific like this. So, if or how about let's do it like this. How about validate the user's name first? So, name equals request.form.get quote unquote name. That just gives me a variable containing the user's name. If they didn't give me a name, which I can express with just if not name, like if name is blank or none, then let me go ahead and return render template of that error template. But let's pass in a specific message like missing name. And so by passing in another argument to this template called message, I can trust that Flask will dynamically output that message where I tell it to using the old curly braces. Meanwhile, let's go ahead and validate not just the name, but validate uh sport. I can do this in a couple of ways. Let's do this. So sport equals request.form.get quote unquote sport. Then in here, let's say if there's no sport, go ahead and return render template quote unquote error.html, message equals missing sport. So quite like name. But we can be more specific now, too. If the sport they did give me is not in the global sports list, well then it's Kelly trying to register for volleyball again. So let's return render template of error.html, HTML, but this time the message shall be invalid sport or something like that. So, we're being ever more clear otherwise they are presumably confirmed because we got this far logically. So, if I go back to the other browser tab, go back to the form and let's go ahead and type in no name and just click register. Okay, what did I do wrong accidentally? So, let's go back to VS Code, open my terminal, open the first terminal window where Flask run is running. un encountered unknown tag body. So I did something stupid in error.html. So let's go into error.html and uh body block. Oh, that's subtle. I just transposed the words. It's supposed to be block body. That was dumb. All right. Block body. I think that's correct. So let's go back to the browser. Let's reload. It's prompting me to reconfirm that I want to submit the exact same form which recall had no name and no sport. But now I see an error in a good way. This is not an uh server error. This is my error. Missing name. Now it's not super user friendly, but it's at least more explanatory than you are not registered. All right, let's go back. Let's give it a name, but no sport. Register. Ah, missing sport. Let's go back. Uh, let's go ahead and give it a sport, but uh a sport, but no name. Missing name as before. And if I took the time to actually hack the HTML and do what Kelly did before and add volleyball, it would similarly say invalid sport in this case, too, because it's not in that same list. All right, questions on this technique. All right. Well, it's all fine and good to have a registration site that does this, but it's literally just throwing out the information. And what I did like years ago was actually even cut a corner initially where I think I wrote code that just sent an automatic email to the proctor running frost IM containing the person's name and the sport for which they registered. But that was very quickly replaced by a better feature which is actually store the data in the server itself and keep track of it rather than just send it off via email. So let's do a first pass at actually storing information on everyone who has registered for sports. Well, well, let me go up here and let me create another global variable to make my life easier here called registrance and set this equal to curly brace close curly brace. What do these two characters represent if empty especially? What data type is this? It's a dictionary. So, it's a Python dict. So, you could similarly say dict explicitly open close pen. But it's more Pythonic generally to just use two curly braces. This is just giving me an empty dictionary. Why? Well, I want to store the two things I'm se collecting about all of the students, their name and the sport for which they registered. So, key value, name sport. So, how can I go about doing this? Well, it's pretty trivial. Down here in my register function, recall that I'm just kind of naively saying you're registered even though I'm not doing anything with their name or sport. But that's easy. Let's remember the student for real now. So in that registrance uh uh dictionary, let's go ahead and index into it using the student's name, David or Kelly or whoever, and set that equal to the sport for which they registered. And now notice the name is coming as before from request.form.get. The sport is similarly coming from that function. And so this is just remembering that key value pair. So that's all fine and good. It's in the computer's memory. How do we actually see it? Well, wouldn't it be nice after you register if you could see the actual registrance of the website? Um, uh, certainly if you're the proctor trying to run the sports. Well, yes. So, let's go down here and let's create another route like /registrants, which is just going to give me a list of everyone who's registered. Let's define a function called registrants, though I could call it anything I want. And this one's going to be relatively simple. Let's render a template called registrants which will soon exist and pass in all of the registrants that are in that global dictionary. And again I can call this placeholder anything I want but in so far as it contains the registrance I'm setting registrance equal to the registrance global dictionary. So let's go now into my terminal window and create registrance.html HTML and create really the beginnings of an actual frostim's website that's going to show the proctor who has now registered. So let me go into this terminal and do code of registrance.html and close the terminal. Let's try to get this right. Finally extends layout.html close quote uh close bracket there. Then let's do block body in the right order. Then end block down here. And then inside of the block here, this is going to be a bit more of a mouthful, but let's use some of our HTML from last week. We'll give an H1 tag that says registrance so the proctor knows what they're looking at. Then let's put this in a table for instance with two columns, names and sports. So table tag followed by a T head tag for the table heading. Uh then that heading is going to contain just a single row for TR. And each of those has a th table heading. Uh one of which, and actually I'll make it tighter is name. The other of which is going to be sport. So these are the column headings, the table headings, TH tags for short. After the head of the table, let's go ahead and do a T body for table body. And inside of here, this is where Ginga comes in use. I can say for each name in the registrance placeholder that was plugged in and for proactively, what do I want to do on each iteration? Well, I think want to output table row, table row, table row. And in here I can do TR and then inside of that a table data for the cell on the left putting in the student's name which is coming from this for loop just like in Python. And then one more table data namely the registrance uh placeholder indexed into at that name which because it's a dictionary will give me the sport for that student's name. And then I think we're good to go. And in fact, just to hark back to something I said last week when we were imagining, actually this is in week five when we were talking about stacks and like your Gmail or Outlook inbox is essentially a stack with the newest emails on top. And I hypothesized at the time that it's just row after row after row after row when we started talking last week about HTML. Here is what Google and Microsoft and others are probably doing. Anytime you have tabular information in a page, they've got some data in memory like the registrants and they're just using code like this in Ginger to output table row, table row, table row. Imagine this is your email instead. Same exact idea. And now we have the ability to express that kind of logic. So let's go back now into the browser. Click reload on the form. Let's register for instance David for basketball. Click register. It claims I'm registered. But hopefully now I'm legitimately registered because that variable is storing it in memory. And in fact, let's go ahead and go now to not slregister, but I'll zoom in at the top registrance and hit enter. And we will see a very ugly but functional HTML table containing two columns name and sport. The so-called t head with which David and basketball are present. Moreover, if we now go back to that form and let's try registering Kelly for instance for soccer. Click register. Now let's manually go to registrants again. Now Kelly and David are in the server's memory as well. Questions then on what this example is now doing or how it's achieving these results? Yeah. &gt;&gt; Really good question. If you wanted to restrict the registrance page to only certain people, ideally you would have a password on it. Um, and in fact, one of the next examples we'll do in a few minutes is a a login page for exactly that reason. Right now, just sort of on the honor system that only the proctor in question goes to this URL. But just for the sake of discussion actually, suppose that you did want the registration list to be public if only to like hype up who has already registered. Well, it's not you good to just tell people go to the /registers URL. We can actually link them to that in a few different ways. So for instance,