I have two. &gt;&gt; Okay, so it's not correct. That's uh one of the first things to point out. So, too many prepositions for this was supposed to say for I in range. Okay. So, now that this program's correct, what looks weird to you and probably could break it. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So, the end variable should be it seems to be scoped to the while loop, at least in so far as it's indented inside the while loop, which feels analogous to being inside of curly braces and C. And so it seems weird that I'm presuming to use n on line six even though it was only defined on line two. It turns out this is possible in Python. The issue of scope that we encountered in C is not as rigorously enforced. We'll say for today such that when you define N up here, you can actually use it down here. And you can think of this as being a little reasonable because if there's no more specification of what data type n is and no more semicolon. Just imagine it would look kind of stupid if you just put an a blank N there and hit enter just so it kind of exists. There's no way to express the idea of create this variable in advance without actually assigning it a value. Whereas in C we could do that. So this is in fact okay and correct. Um what else is going on here? Well instead of a do while we're kind of just implementing the idea of it. I'm just blindly inducing deliberately an infinite loop like do the following forever but then as soon as I have the answer I want like a positive integer from the human break out of this loop and this is indeed the pythonic way to say get user input because this will minimally ask the user for a height once and maybe more and more times. So no do loops only while loops and for loops and only while loops are really the same as in C. Even for loops we've seen are a bit different. All right. Well, how about instead of just that Mario uh example, recall this one where we wanted to print like four question marks in the sky side by side. Well, we can do this in a few different ways. Let me go back to VS Code, close the C version, and let's just completely change Mario.py to implement this. Now, I want four question marks in the sky. So, I think I can do something like for I in range of four, go ahead and just print out quote unquote question mark. Do you like this? Python of Mario.py Pi. Should I run it? No. Why? This is how I did it in C. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. I got to edit the end value, the named parameter for the print function because otherwise if I hit enter, they're all on different lines, which is not the effect I want when all four question marks are meant to be side by side. All right. Well, that's an easy fix. I can pass the named parameter called end into the print function. Set it equal to quote unquote with double quotes or with single quotes. As always, stylistically, I would be consistent. So, I'm going to use double quotes even though the documentation is consistent with its single quotes. Now, I'm going to rerun Mario of Python Mario.py. And I'm so close. Now, they're on the same line, but the stupid cursor didn't move to the next line. That's fine. How to fix this? Well, just logically, I can put a blank print statement below. And even though I'm not passing anything in, you get a new line for free when calling print. So even though I'm not passing in any arguments, I am getting the aesthetic effect that I want. So that is a perfectly reasonable way to do it. Now, if you feel yourself becoming a bit of a geek though in learning about Python and previously C, you can even solve this problem even more Pythonically by saying print quote unquote question mark* 4 using multiplication similar in spirit to the plus operator for concatenation. And now multiply the exclamation point by itself four times. So now if I go down here and run Python of Mario.py, I get a very elegant solution to exactly that same problem. even more concisely than my previous version. What if I want to do something in two dimensions? Well, recall that we moved to the underground of Mario Brothers here and we had like a 3x3 grid of bricks. How can we do that? Well, in C, we had nested for loops using I and J back in the day. And I could do the same thing in Python. Let me go back into VS Code here and let me do one outer loop for I in range of three. Then let me do an inner loop for J in range of three. Then let me go ahead and print out a hash. But let me learn from my past mistakes. I don't want to print out a new line every time. So let's override that default. But after each row, let's print a new line. So that down here, I can go in Mario.py, run it, and I've got my 3x3 grid of bricks. I could change this a little bit and call this row and column. Even though here too, even more so. I'm not literally using row and column anywhere explicitly, but semantically it kind of explains maybe a little clearer to the reader what's actually going on. So that might help. But we could tighten this up too, right? If I just want to print a 3x3 grid, well, I know that the top thing here will iterate three times. And I know how to very elegantly print things out with a oneliner. So I could just print out a hash times three in this case. And then down here, I can go to Python of Mario. And voila, I'm back in business 2. So it's just sort of easier to do these kinds of things and express yourself all the more succinctly. Well, what else can we do? Well, it turns out in Python that unlike arrays, you can ask lists how long they are. So you don't have to keep around a variable of how large an array is. You can just add stuff to a list and then ask Python how long is this list? How many elements are in it? Case in point, let me go back to VS Code and clear out Mario.py pi and let's reimplement from a few weeks back the notion of uh calculating uh like and the average uh quiz score that you might have in a class. So in score.py, let's go ahead and create a program that's got a list called scores of three scores that we've seen before, 72, 73, and 33. And recall that we tried a few weeks back and see to average these together. And to do that, we had to add them all together. We had to uh divide by the total number of elements in the list. Like it wasn't that hard. It was sort of like grade school arithmetic to calculate an average. But Python has more functions available to us. Not just length, but even summation. So let me go ahead and do this. Let me say that my average variable shall be the sum of those scores divided by the length of those scores. And indeed, per the documentation, Python has a lang function, leen for short, a sum function which takes the add uh which adds together all of the elements in that list. And so down here now I can say something like print with an f string or format string that the average is whatever that value is. And I don't have to do any loops or math myself. I can just call the function like I could in Excel or Google Sheets or Apple numbers. Python of score.py enter. And my average is in fact 59.3333. And then some weird imprecision at the end there. And in fact just for consistency with our C code, let me rename this. I'm going to rename score to scores plural. That's going to close the window. But now at least you'll see online that we have a program indeed called scores. Well, this is not that interesting because I've just hard-coded my 72, my 73, and 33. What if we want the human to be able to type that in? Well, I think we can do that, too. So, let me actually open up that version of the file now pluralized. Let me go ahead and not initialize the list for the human, but let me set it equal to an empty list. Just using an open square bracket and close square bracket, like an array that has nothing in it. But this one is literally of size zero at the moment. And now let me do for I in range of let's just for now ask the user for three scores. Even though we could certainly ask the user how many scores do they want to input and then use that number instead. So in each of these iterations, let's ask the user for a score using something like int input score. I'm going to set aside the reality that if the user types in cat or dog, the whole thing's going to break and therefore I should really add my try and my accept. But I'm going to discard that error checking and focus only on the essence of this program for now. Now after line three, if I have in a score variable the user's quiz score, how do I put it into that array? Well, in in that list, well, with an array, I had to use the square bracket notation, keep track of how big it is and use like bracket I or something like that. No longer in Python because a uh list is an object that has not only data but functions aka methods associated with it. I can just call a method that comes with every Python list called append and pass in that score using that same dot notation as before. The rest of my code can stay exactly the same. If I now run Python of scores.py pi and I type in 72 73 33 manually though I still get that same average and notice I did not need to decide in advance how big that list of scores was going to be questions on what we've just done with lists. No. All right. Even cooler for some definition of cool is that we can now implement hash tables or more generically dictionaries sets of key value pairs by just using a data type that comes with Python. I claimed last week that like Python that dictionaries are sort and hashts in particular are sort of the Swiss army knives of data structures and that they just let you associate some piece of data with others. With Python, you do not need to jump through the hoops that you needed to with problem set five implementing your own spell checker and your own hasht. you just create a dict object in Python, a dictionary that gives you the ability to associate keys with values. So, case in point, let's do this. Let me go back into VS Code and close out scores.py and let's create a new and improved version of our phone book in phone book.py. Let's go ahead and come up with a list of names just to demonstrate how we could store a bunch of names in the phone book irrespective of numbers and set those equal to say uh Kelly's name and my name and John Harvard's name just by putting four quoted strings or stirs inside of this list. Now let's ask the human using the input function for the name that they want to search for in this list. And now let's implement linear search using Python. I can do this in a bunch of ways, but one way is to say for each uh name, we'll call it n in names, go ahead and ask the question if the name I'm looking for equals the current name in the list that I'm iterating over, go ahead and print out just something generic like found and then break out of this loop. And let's see if we can find Kelly or David or John or someone else. Python of phonebook.py. Enter. Searching for the name, say David. Enter. And it was in fact found. Let me go ahead and search for someone else's name that's not in there, Brian. And now it's not in fact found. Although it's not all that enlightening to just ignore the question altogether. It would be nice to say not found. And here where is where in C it would be kind of nonobvious to do this in C. If you wanted to print out found or if you get through the whole list and you still haven't found the user, print not found. you'd have to like keep track with the variable of whether or not you found the person or you'd have to return from the code prematurely just to get out of it logically. Turns out somewhat weirdly but wonderfully usefully for loops in Python can have else clauses associated with them whereby I can say down here print not found. If I run this version of the program and search for someone who's not in the phone book like Brian now I actually see not found. Semantically, it's a little weird, but essentially what's happening is if you get through this whole loop and you never call break, then you've not actually broken out of the loop. So, you're going to hit the else. And in that case, you're going to print out not found. And this is such a common thing to like do this kind of bookkeeping and keep track of whether or not something has happened inside of a for loop. And if so, do this, else do that. Else literally handles that scenario in Python. And this is the most C unlike thing that we've perhaps seen in terms of features with regard to at least loops. All right. Well, this is great that I've kind of implemented linear search, but like we did that in C and it's getting a little tedious. Can't we do better? We actually can. Let me clear my terminal and tighten this up. Instead of iterating over every name in names, just like we keep iterating over integers in ranges and checking for each name if it equals the thing we're looking at, you can actually do something much more clever. You can just literally ask Python if the name you're looking for is in the names list, then go ahead and print out uh found, else print not found. And so this is where Python 2 gets kind of cool. In line five, you have just a simple if condition with a boolean expression name in names. How does Python know if name is in names? It uses linear search presumably to search over the whole list of names looking for what you care about and then tells you true or false if it found it. You don't have to write the code to iterate over it with a while loop or for loop or whatnot. You just say what you mean. And so here too, it's a little more English-like. If name in names, question mark, then print found, much more so than it would be pronouncable in C. So that's one other cool feature that we now have at our disposal. What's yet another? Well, when it comes to dictionary objects in C, or rather in Python, a dict object really just gives you a set of key value pairs. And we've seen this kind of chart before whereby we might have name and number and name and number and name and number. How do we translate this to code? Because in C, as with problem set 5, it was going to be quite an undertaking to be able to store a whole bunch of things in memory in the form of something like a hash table. Well, in Python, we can actually define a dictionary ourselves. So, these square brackets represent a list, but I can alternatively use curly braces for a very new purpose. I'm going to go ahead and hit enter just to move the second curly brace to a new line. And I am going to now enumerate a bunch of key value pairs. Namely, quote unquote Kelly for the first key colon. Then we'll do + one 617495 1,000 as the number. Then I'm going to go ahead and do quote unquote David for the second key. And since we both work here, I'm going to go ahead and just use that same number as we've done in before. Then a third key for John Harvard colon. And for John, we'll use plus one 949 uh 4682750, which is fun to call or text this. Now, even though it's syntactically a little different, gives me the equivalent of this chart here, key value pairs, where the keys are the staff names and the values are the staff numbers. That implements all of that, a hash table, if you will, in Python's own syntax. So, how do I now use this? Turns out I can actually use it in exactly the same way. I'm going to go ahead and generalize this now to people because it contains not just names but names and numbers. So I'm going to change this variable down here to people too. But notice the syntax now. I can still ask the human for a name they want to look up. I can now still say if the name is in the people dictionary. And by definition, Python's going to interpret that preposition in as meaning is the following key in the dictionary. And if so, it's going to return true. But what's cool about this is that besides just making this work as follows. Python phonebook.py. And let's type in David. And there's my number. Oh, that's not my number. It just says found. Let's run it again and type in say Brian. Not found. Okay, that's as expected. But I'd like to know what my number is or Kelly's number or John's number. Well, that's an easy fix, too. Inside of this conditional, I can say something like this. Number equals people bracket name. And we've not seen this before, but we have seen square brackets in C when we had arrays. This square bracket notation is how you indexed into an array to get a specific value 0 1 2 3 4. What's amazing about dictionaries, not just in Python, but in other languages as well, you can now index into a dictionary just as you can index into an array. But whereas an array you use numeric indices, in dictionaries you use string indices. You can use strings to look up their corresponding value. So to be clear, name at this point is given to us by the human's input. So if I typed in DAV ID, name equals David. So this is like saying people square bracket quote unquote David. Find David's number. that stores the answer from this two column chart in the variable called number. And all that remains is for me to print it out, which I can do using an old fing. Now, let me go down into my print statement, change this to an fstring, add a colon, add the number variable to be interpolated, rerun this program as Python of phone book.py, type in my name, and there's my number as found. And this is incredibly powerful. And why again uh hashts and in turn more generally dictionaries are sort of the Swiss army knife. Being able just to look up data with such simple syntax is wonderfully useful and powerful. And in fact we can even do more than this. For instance, let me propose that if you think about other incarnations of um key value pairs, you see them all the time. For instance, in like spreadsheets, like here's a screenshot of Google Sheets whereby I've got the beginnings of a spreadsheet with uh names and numbers. But in this model, I want to actually associate some metadata with my data. So the data I care about is the actual names and numbers. But you could imagine having a third column like email address and maybe home address or any number of other pieces of data associated with these three people. For now, I've just got two columns or two attributes, names and numbers. Each of the rows in a spreadsheet, as most anyone knows who's used a spreadsheet before, represents different records or different pieces of data, like this is Kelly, this is David, this is John, and so forth. We can implement this idea using dictionaries and lists together. So the syntax is going to be a little strange at first, but let me go back to VS Code here and let me change my people uh dictionary to be a people list between square brackets. And the elements of this list now are going to be uh dictionaries themselves. I'm going to use some curly braces inside of these square brackets and say that the name of one person is quote unquote Kelly and the number for that person is quote unquote +16174951 1000 close quote then comma on the outside of the curly braces then I'm going to have another quote unquote name colon dv ID comma then another number colon I'm going to borrow the same phone number because we both work here then lastly a comma and finally quote unquote name colon quote unquote John and then lastly a quote unquote number for John colon plus one uh 949468275 zero. All right. So what's going on here now? Our people variable is now not just a simple dictionary with just individual key value pairs. Name number name number name number number. We now have a more generalized way of storing not just a name or a number but an email address or a home address or any number of other values. How? Well, the commas just separate the key value pairs now. So, if I do have email addresses for us, I can put comma quote unquote email colon like mailin@harvard.edu and I can just keep adding these key value pairs to each of the dictionaries because a dictionary is a collection of key value pairs. So it stands to reason that I can associate name with David, number with the number, email with mailinhar.edu and so forth, effectively implementing this idea now in the computer's memory. And at the risk of significantly oversimplifying, this is what Google and Microsoft and Apple are doing with their spreadsheet software. They have written code that presents to you a nice table with a graphical user interface on the screen, but underneath the hood, what they effectively have is lists of dictionaries representing each of those rows. And we're going to come back to this when we start experimenting before long with our own databases. Going to get back rows of data from databases. We are going to store that data in lists of dictionaries for the same reason as well. So, how can we use this? Well, let me hide my terminal for a second and tweak the program just a little bit. I'm still going to get the name of a person to look up their number. I'm still going to uh how about iterate over this because I've lost the ability at least for now to just ask a question like is this name in the structure because it's a list I do now need to iterate a little bit differently. So I'm going to do for each person in the people list go ahead and check is the current person's name equal to the name I'm looking for and if so go ahead and create a variable called number. set it equal to that person's number and then go ahead and print out for instance found colon then in my curly braces that specific number and then after all that break out of this. So this is a mouthful but recall that it's all the same syntax we've seen before in smaller parts. Square brackets and square brackets means here comes a list. What are the elements of this list? dict dict three dictionaries back to back to back each of which has a key and a value and a key and a value called name and number respectively. The second one temporarily has name and number and email as keys plus three values and the third one has keys of name and number as well with their corresponding value. So when I iterate over each person in the people list that means on each iteration person is going to be set to this dictionary then this dictionary then this dictionary on each iteration I'm asking this question is that current person's name key uh is rather is the value of that person's name key equal to the name I'm looking for and if so grab a variable called number set it equal to the value of that person's number key and then just print it out. And if we wanted email instead, I tweak the word uh number to email. If I want to look up anything else, you can tweak that code there. But being able to index into dictionaries using strings is sort of the fundamentally powerful new technique that we have here. Question now on any of this? Yeah. &gt;&gt; If both &gt;&gt; Good question. If you wanted both name and number on the screen, do you concatenate? Sure, you could do that. Or print them out by passing a comma into the print function and printing one out each way. Absolutely. However you want to format it. And actually, just as an aside too, even though this becomes a little less readable, this is a little silly that on line 11, I'm declaring a variable called number only to use it one line later and then never again. Technically with those curly braces and format strings, I could just take this code on the right, plug it into those curly braces and get rid of this variable altogether. Just at some point though, fstrings start to get a little too hard to read with quotes inside of quotes. And so like I kind of prefer being a little more pedantic about it and explicitly putting it in a variable and then interpolating just that variable. But you could do it in different ways still. All right, couple final features of Python that'll get us on our way with doing other things. Turns out there's a whole bunch of libraries that come with the language itself that you nonetheless have to import. Even though they're not third party, you didn't have to install them. You just need to add them to your code by importing them. One of them is CIS. And among the things that the CIS library has in Python is the ability to give you access to command line arguments. After all, we've lost access to command line arguments because there's no more main, at least by convention. There's no int main void. There's no int main argv arg stuff going on in our code. But all of that functionality is still available in a library called uh cis. So how do we use this? Well, let me go back to VS Code here now. Let me create a relatively simple program called greet.py. Similar to a few weeks back that's just going to greet the user using command line arguments instead of get string or the input function. I'm going to do this by saying from the cy library import argv. In this case, argv is essentially just a list. It is a list of the command line arguments that the human has typed. It's a list, which means you can just ask the length function leen what its length is. So, there's no need for arg anymore. You can just literally ask arg how long it is, which is kind of nice. So, I'm going to say this. If the length of argv uh equals 2, which means the human typed two words at the prompt. Okay, let's go ahead and greet them assuming that's their name and say hello, and then whatever their name is. Let me make this a format string. And to be pedantic, let me create a variable called name and set it equal to argv bracket 1, which is going to be the second word that the human typed in, as has been our convention in the past. Else, if they didn't type exactly two command line arguments, let's just go ahead and print out something like hello world as generic. Let me run python of greet.py. Enter. And you see hello world because I apparently did not type in exactly two words and yet I did. So let's see where this is going. Let me rerun Python of greet.py but type in my name David at the command line. Enter. And huh I screwed up unintentionally. What did I do wrong? All right. Print f is not a thing. So that's an easy fix. Let's delete it. Let me clear my terminal window. Rerun python of greet.py space David. Enter. And now I get hello David. The only thing that's weird here is that I typed in three words at the prompt and yet I'm checking for two. And it's a bit subtle, but with Python and RV, it ignores the Python interpreter. It goes without saying that you're using the Python interpreter to run a Python program. So the only things that are being counted are the words after the Python interpreter itself. So when I type greet.py and David, that's two. When I only typed greet.py, that's one instead. All right. So now that I've done that, I have access to my command line arguments. Again, what about my exit statuses? This was getting a little low level, but in recent C programs, we've had you all returning zero on success, returning one on error. Can we still do that? Well, yes. And in fact, the CIS library is used for that as well. So if I want to actually add some exit statuses to a program to facilitate check 50 and automated tests in the real world, I can do that with a program called let's call this uh exit.py. And in exit.py, Pi I'm similarly going to import uh CIS but in a different way. I'm going to give myself access to well yes let's go ahead and import the whole library just to demonstrate how you can access things inside of it without explicitly saying from cis import such and such as before if uh the length of cis.orgv arg. So this is a little bit different, but I'm asking the same kind of question. Does not equal to. I want to go ahead and print out to the user missing command line argument, which is something we did a while back as well. And then I want to exit with code one. CIS.exit one else. If I don't run into that issue, I'm going to go ahead. Actually, let's not even bother with an else. Let's for parody with our C version, let's do this. print f quote unquote hello uh cis.orgv bracket one close quote cis.exit exit zero. All right, that's a whole mouthful, but what's really going on? So, I could have done from cis import argv, but I don't need to enumerate every single variable or every single function that I want from a library. I can also just more generally say import the whole library. Give me access to everything and then I'll tell you what I want from it later. Therefore, on line three, I can still access argv. I just have to scope it to the cy library. So that I say cis.orgv not arg means go inside of that library and find me arguing it to a variable unto itself in my own code. Why am I saying not equal to two? Well, if they don't give me two words uh after the interpreter's name, I want to yell at them and say missing command line argument and then exit one. I'm not going to give them a default hello world anymore. I want them to give me their name. Meanwhile, if I get this far and I haven't exited from the program, I can print out cis.orgv bracket one, which is going to be David in the example I typed before. And this means success. So cis.exit zero signifies success. It's more syntax than before uh than it was in C, but we have the exact same functionality available to us as we have in the past. How about one other example that we've had in the past. Let's convert it to Python as well. So you have a few more tools in your toolkit. How about implementing a version of this phone book that actually persists? So instead of hard coding into it Kelly and David and John in this way, let's actually let the user type in a name and a number just like on your iPhone or Android phone and add it to a text file like a CSV file as we did before uh using commaepparated values. Well, it turns out that Python comes with a library to handle CSV files. We don't need to hackishly implement our own CSV support by printing the commas ourselves. Instead, we can import the CSV library. We can then create say a variable called file set it equal to open and open a file called phonebook.csv in append mode. So this is almost the same as C except it's open instead of fop which we saw a couple of weeks back. Now let's ask the user via the input function for the name they want to add to their contacts and the number that they want to add to their contacts. And then in after that, let's go ahead and do this, which is a bit of uh muscle memory to to remember, but I'm going to create a variable called writer, but I could call it anything I want. Set it equal to CSV.riter, which means there's a function called writer in the CSV library that I'm simply accessing it because I didn't import it explicitly by name. And I'm going to pass it that file. This tells Python, turn that file into a CSV that can be written to. The next line of code, I'm going to literally say writer.right row. Write row is a method aka function associated with this writer object. And I know that only because I did actually read the documentation uh for the CSV library. What do I want to write? Well, I want to write a list of values, namely a name and a number. And I'm using square brackets to tell the right row function that here you go. Here's a list of values, two of them, a name and a number. After all that, I'm going to do file.close and just close the whole file. All right, so where does this actually get me? Well, let me go ahead and open up phonebook.csv, which is initially empty. I'll move this over to the right hand side. But when I now run this program with Python of phonebook.py, enter. I'll type in, say, Kelly's name. Enter. + 1 6174951000. Enter. And voila, it ends up in the CSV using a little bit less code than we had to last time with C. Let's run it once more. And I'll type in my name. And I'll again use + 1 617495 1000. Enter. It's being appended to that file as well. And one last time for John. Plus 1 9494682750. Enter. Voila. So it's pretty easy. That is to say in Python to start creating files like this. But this isn't really Pythonic. Let me in fact close the CSV file, hide my terminal, and propose that we can tighten up this code a bit too. I don't need to open up the file way up here. I can go ahead and get my variables values uh this way first. And in fact, I could have done that code a little later anyway, but I can do this in Python. I can say with the following file opened, phone book.csv CSV in append mode and refer to it as a variable called file. Do this stuff and close the file yourself. So this program is suddenly significantly shorter because this one line has the effect of opening the file for me in append mode, assign it to a variable, do this stuff, and then as soon as the program's indentation ends and there's code over here or no code whatsoever, the file gets closed for me automatically. This just helps us avoid like memory leaks and like stupid mistakes we've made in C because you forget to close a file that you have to open and you don't necessarily notice unless you run valr or something on it. Python tries to avoid this by giving you a new keyword with that doesn't really make sense semantically except with the following file open and it will close the file for you. So that's two among the features that you sort of get with Python. The catch though is that this CSV is fairly simplistic. In particular, it's missing a header row that actually indicates what is in each of the columns. In fact, if I go ahead and run code of phonebook.csv, we'll see again that the file contains just one row for Kelly, for me, and for John. Whereas, ideally, it would look a little something more like this Google sheet version, which actually has at the very first row something say name and number, which then describes the data therein, after which are the three actual rows. Now, the simplest fix here, frankly, would probably be to just start with name, comma, number at the top of the file and then assume that my phonebook.py program is just going to append, append, append additional rows to the file containing the names and numbers respectively. I could have done that from the get-go. And in fact, that would be better than putting some code inside of phonebook.py PI that writes out that specific row because after all, if I'm writing running this program again and again, I don't want the header row to appear again and again and again unless I complicate the program a little bit to ensure that I only do that once. But assuming that I do go into phonebook.csv and from the get-go do have a file that contains name and number, we can actually start to improve upon the implementation of phonebook.py pi because we can take advantage of the fact that my dictionary can act that my writer can actually read that same header. In fact, let me put these files side by side here. And then in phone book.py, let's go ahead and transition away from using a writer to using a so-called dictionary writer or dict writer for short. Capital D, capital W. And then let me go ahead and specify one additional argument to this particular function, namely field names, which I know exists because I looked it up in the documentation. And the value of this argument is supposed to be a list of the fields that are presumed to exist in the CSV that we're about to write to. So I'm going to do quote unquote name, quote unquote number. Line's a bit long, so it's scrolling there. But if I scroll back to the left, we'll see that the line is otherwise unchanged. But when I go down now to write each respective row, notice that I don't have to rely on this list which just assumes somewhat naively that name will always be in the first column or column zero and number will always be in the second or column one. After all, if someone were to move that data around, at least in the spreadsheet using Excel or Google Sheets or something else, my code would end up being fairly fragile because at the moment it's just assuming blindly that name goes first followed by number. But once we have that header row in there and tell dict writer about it, we can actually now pass in not a list but an actual dictionary of key value pairs and let the dictionary writer figure out where in the file which column those values should go in. So inside of this dictionary, I'm going to have one key called name, the value of which is indeed the name the user typed in. The second key of which is going to be quote unquote number, the value of which is the number that the user typed in. And let me go back actually now and fix a typo from earlier. We're only asking the user for one number. So all this time I should have just requested one number aesthetically with my input function there. Now notice I have the file ready to go. Indeed name and number are there that matches the field names I've provided to my code and it matches the key value pairs that I'm subsequently passing to right row. So let's go ahead and give this a try. Let me go ahead and run again with this otherwise empty CSV file. Say for the header uh phonebook.py with uh Python of phonebook.py. Enter. I'm going to now go ahead and type in say the first name which was Kelly before plus 1 617495 1000 and watch what happens at top right. Kelly and her number end up in the file even though I didn't actually specify explicitly as with a list or numeric indices which value goes where. Let's run it once more and put in myself again. Plus 1 617495 1000. Enter. And there again I am. And lastly, just for good measure, let's go ahead and put John back in the file with plus one 949-468-2750, which if you still haven't called or texted, do feel free enter. And voila, in phonebook.csv, we have all of those same rows and code that's a little more resilient now against any changes we might subsequently make there, too. All right, how about now some final flourishes using some other features of Python that we did see a glimpse of some time ago, namely the ability to install libraries of our own choice. So, up until now in CS50.dev, we CS50 have pre-installed most of what you need, including back in week uh the earliest weeks of the class when we had that cows program that I wrote that was using a thirdparty library that I had installed into my code space in advance. Well, you can use a program called pip to install Python packages into your own code space and if using your own Mac and PC onto your own Macs and PCs as well if those libraries are freely available as open source online and in the repository from which the Python uh pit program actually draws. Let me go back to VS Code and let me go ahead and create a new program called cow.py. And with this program, I'm going to go ahead and import that library cows. And after that, I'm going to call cowsay.cow quote unquote say this is CS50 to have a cute little cow on the screen say exactly that. Now, in a previous lecture, I had pre-installed this library. But suppose I had forgotten to do so today. Let's see what other type of error we'll see on the screen. Well, let me go ahead and run Python of cow.py. Enter. And there's another one of those trace backs. This one's a little more straightforward than the name error and the value error we saw in the past. This is a literally module not found error. no module named cows. Well, this is where the pip command comes in. If something hasn't been pre-installed uh for you in cs50.dev or in the real world on whatever system you're using, you can use pip install cows and assuming you've spelled it correctly and assuming the library is publicly available, hitting enter will result in pip automatically downloading the latest version, installing it in this case into your code space and solving hopefully that problem. Let me clear my terminal window, run python of cow.py Pi again. Definitely cross my fingers. And there is the most adorable cow. And if we full screen the terminal, we'll see that he's indeed saying this is CS50. Now, that's just one of the things we can install with cows. I could also install libraries onto my own Mac and PC. In fact, in just a moment, I'm going to switch over to another computer here where I have a terminal window open on my own actual Mac. And I'm doing this because I'd like to play around with some speech uh some texttospech uh library functionality which you can't really do in cs50.dev because it's browserbased and when you run code in the cloud it's not going to pass the audio along to your speakers on your laptop or desktop. But if I'm running Python and my own code on my own computer, a Mac in this case, or a PC in someone else's case, I can install that kind of library, speech to text, and have my own code on my own computer, use my own speakers to verbalize some string quite like that. So, how can I go about doing this? Well, having read some documentation, I'm going to go ahead and install with pip a library called pi to text uh text to speech version 3. hitting enter goes and finds and downloads as needed the uh the library if it's not already installed and then brings me back to my terminal and I'm going to use an older school program here called Vim or vi to actually implement a cow program on this computer whereby I'm going to go ahead and write some code using this library without VS code but with just another text editor instead to do this at the very top of my file I'm going to import this library called Python texttospech so pyttsx3 for version three and then I'm going to use only three lines of code to synthesize some voice. I'm going to say a variable called engine. Set it equal to pi ttsx3.init because the documentation taught me that I need to initialize the library the first time I use it. I can then use this variable called engine to actually say something quite like scratch albeit verbally instead of pictorially like this is c-50 quote unquote. And then lastly I can use engine.run run and wait similar to some scratch block so that the whole expression is actually verbalized before my program actually quits. Now, the first time I run this, it might take a moment for the library indeed to initialize itself. But on my own Mac here, I'm going to run Python of cow.py. If we could raise the volume just a little bit, hopefully we'll not see but hear this cow's greeting. &gt;&gt; This is CS50. It was very much in a rush to say it, but after initializing for that long. And if we ran it again and again and added some optimizations, we could get it talking much more quickly than that. But we now have a version of the program that indeed verbalizes what string or stir it is that I've passed into it &gt;&gt; CS15. &gt;&gt; It's really in a rush to finish there. All right. But let's try one final flourish of another library that's fun to play around with, if only because it'll motivate some of the things you can now do in Python yourself. Let me go into VS Code in my code space because this one does not require my speakers. I'll close that first version of the cow and I'm going to go ahead and create a QR code generator after installing with pip uh a library called QR code which I read about online and now it's installed in my code space. I'm going to now go ahead and create a file called uh QR.py. So let's go ahead and code up QR.py and I want to generate my own QR codes. Most of you in the h are in the habit if you've ever generated a QR code before, you probably just Google around for some generator online for which someone else wrote code to generate the QR code. But I can do that for myself and actually generate my own images. I'm going to go ahead and import the library that I just installed. Import QR code. And then below that, I'm going to create a variable called for instance image and set that equal to this libraries QR code function. No relation to the make that we use for C. And I'm going to make a QR code containing a URL maybe of one of the lecture videos. So let's do httpsyoutube.com the short version and then xvfz j5 p g uh gg0 if I got that just right. Then after that I'm going to go ahead and call image.save to save that URL as a file called qr.png quote unquote. And then PNG will be the format which is portable network graphic which is akin to a JPEG or a GIF but with different features. I'm just going to double check my writing here. So we go to the right lecture video and I think we are indeed good. And what that should do after running my code is leave me with today's final flourish a ping file in my code space that when open is going to be QR code that you can scan with your phone. So if you'd like to get ready for this final flourish I'm going to go ahead and run Python of QR.PI and hit enter. Thankfully, it worked. I'm going to now open up qr.png and close my terminal window. And for our final moments together this here in week six, after which we'll ultimately transition to yet more languages and problems to be solved, here is a final code for you to scan of today's here lecture. All right, that's it for today. We'll All right. This is CS50 and this is already week seven wherein wherein we introduce another programming language this time known as structured query language or SQL or SQL for short. Now SQL as we'll see is a different sort of programming language that allows us to solve like a lot of the same kinds of problems that we've been dabbling with over the past several weeks but arguably in a lot of context it allows us to solve those problems more easily. Indeed, among the goals for today are to demonstrate that sometimes there's multiple tools that you can use to solve the same problem, whether it's C or Python or today's SQL. Um, but we'll also see that uh SQL allows us a different sort of approach to solving problems. Whereas C very much so and Python to a large extent are very much procedural programming languages whereby you have to write these procedures, functions step by step that tell the computer what to do including loops and conditionals and all of that. SQL is said to be a declarative programming language which is a different sort of paradigm whereby when you want to solve some problem you essentially declare what problem you want to solve or you declare what question you have and it's up to the programming language to figure out using loops and conditionals and all of those lower level building blocks how to get you the answer. So ultimately today is all about teaching you yet another language mostly so that you can learn again to teach yourself new languages and to appreciate that once you exit a class like CS50 and are out there in the real world really isn't all that big a deal to pick up new programming languages especially when in advance you've seen different programming paradigms like procedural like object-oriented like today declarative as well but today ultimately is also about data and so to get us started we thought we'd collect some real world data by asking all of you a couple of questions So, if on your laptop or phone you would like to pull up this URL here, it will also exists in just a moment in QR code form. So, if you'd like to go to that URL there or simply scan this here QR code with your phone, that's going to lead you to a Google form. For those unfamiliar, Google has lots of tools among which are uh is a tool via which you can ask people questions via forms. Microsoft has something similar as well. And at that URL, what you'll soon see is like this. Among those questions are which is your favorite language, at least among those we've studied thus far. So go ahead and anonymously answer the questions you see on this form. You'll see which is your favorite language and also which is your favorite problem in problem sets thus far. And meanwhile, as you might know, if you've used Google forms yourself to collect data, we can move from questions here to actual responses. And as people start to buzz in, we'll see that the data set here is starting to update in real time. And Google gives us these nice graphical user interfaces or guies via which we can analyze the data. And so far, Python is easily the winner with 70% plus of you preferring it. 11% of you uh wishing we were still in Scratch and N 18% of you in C. And you'll see the responses are coming in here. But for our purposes today, what's more interesting than the actual answers to these questions is how we can get at the raw data. So among the things you can do in Google Sheets is quite literally click view in sheets, which is in Google forms is click on view in sheets. And what this is going to allow me to do is access the underlying raw data. Now, because Google has forms and spreadsheets, they sort of tied these two products together. But what's especially nice about Google spreadsheets is that I can also download the raw data as a file. I can download it as an Excel file, a text file, a PDF. But for today, we're going to download it in a very common format known as CSV for commaepparated values. And indeed, if I go to the file menu, download commaepparated values. This is perhaps the most uh straightforward, easiest way to get raw data out of any kind of tabular data like this to load it into code that we are about to write. So, if you haven't buzzed in already, that's fine. But at this point in time, now that I've clicked the button, I now have a CSV file in my Mac downloads folder, which if I go ahead and open up here, I can see that indeed I've got this long named file, favor-form responses 1.csv. I'm going to shorten that file name to just favorites.csv. And what I'm going to go ahead and do is open up VS Code. And in my file explorer, I'm going to literally just drag and drop favorites.csv from my Mac. that's going to have the effect of uploading the file as it was at that moment in time so that we can now begin to write some code using this file. And VS Code has automatically gone ahead and opened it up for me. And what you're looking at here is what we're going to start to call a flat file database. It's a very lightweight database in the sense that it stores a lot of data. And it's a flat file in the sense that it's literally just a text file. And by convention, the way the data is stored in this file is indeed by separating values with commas. There are other conventions as well, but CSV is probably the de facto standard. But TSV is a thing for tab separated values, PSV, which is pipe separated values where you might have a vertical bar. Essentially, these file formats try to use a character that might not appear in the actual data so as to separate your rows and columns. So indeed, if I switch back to VS Code here and we take a look at the data, you'll see that from Google Sheets, I've been given three columns. Timestamp, which was automatically generated for me, the language, as well as the problem. And what I see here is that we had a few respondents buzz in a little early. Uh very excited for today's data. But here's the rest of them from like 1:30 p.m. Eastern onward. And you'll see separating separated via commas are effectively three columns of data. So everything before the first column represents a time stamp. Everything between the first and second comma represents the choice of language that you all buzzed in with. And then everything after the second comma represents the problem. Now it's kind of uh jagged edges. It doesn't line up in nice rows and columns because some answers are longer, some answers are shorter, but the commas are sufficient to tell the code we write where one column ends and the next one begins. So, how do we go about writing code like this? If we'd now like to ask some questions about the data, like what is the most popular language? What is the most popular problem? Or conversely, the least of each of those. Well, we could look at the original data in Google forms and that's where we got the pie chart. But how is Google figuring out what the most popular answers are and what uh pie charts it wants to depict? Well, they probably wrote some code not unlike what we're about to do. Although, we'll start with just a command line environment as always. So, within VS Code, I'm going to go ahead and do this. I'm going to go ahead and open up a program called favorites.py. And let's write a program whose purpose in life is to open the CSV file, read it top to bottom, left to right, and then crunch some numbers, figure out what the most popular answers are to those questions. So, I'm going to go ahead and import a package that comes with Python, a library called the CSV library. And nicely enough, this is just code that someone else wrote years ago that figures out how to read data from a file, separating it via comma, so that you and I don't have to write all of that ourselves. Then, I'm going to use this Pythonic convention with open quote unquote favorites.csv as file. Though, if I want to be super explicit that I intend only to read this file, which is the default, I'm going to go ahead and explicitly say quote unquote R, just like we did in C when using fop to open a file in read mode. And now I'm going to do this. I'm going to go ahead and say reader equals CSV.reader file. So, this is a Python convention whereby the CSV library comes with a function called reader that takes as its sole argument here a file that has already been opened. And what that reader will do is figure out where all of the commas are so that I can iterate over this reader in a loop and get back row after row after row without me having to write all of the code to figure out where those commas are. So what I'm going to do in this loop here uh in this uh block of code is for each row in that reader, let's go ahead and just print out maybe the second column which was the language column. So I'm going to go ahead and say print row bracket one because what we'll see is that this reader which again comes with Python hands me a list a list a list for each of the rows wherein bracket zero would represent the first column bracket one would represent the second bracket two would represent the third because everything is zero indexed in Python. All right so let's see what the effect is here let me maximize my terminal window run python of favorites.py Pi cross my finger that I got this right and voila there is every language that was selected by you all in the form from top to bottom by default chronologically but there's a bit of a bug I dare say let me scroll up and up and up in this output through all of these answers until I get to the very top where I ran the program myself which is here python of favorites.py Pi. There's a minor bug here. What's the bug in the output? &gt;&gt; yeah, it accidentally includes the header, which is a bug in the sense that I really just wanted to see the languages, but the code is doing what I told it to, which is just print out every row. So, there's a few ways we could ignore this. Let me go ahead and minimize my terminal window and let me go ahead and say, well, you know what? after we create this reader, let's just skip to the next uh let's just skip to the next row and ignore it effectively and then begin iterating over everything thereafter. And so what happens now is if I remaximize my window, rerun python of favorites.py enter and now scroll up again to the beginning of this incarnation of the program. You'll see that the very first thing I see after my program was run was indeed Python, Python, Python, Python, and so forth. No more quote unquote language. So, how is that? Well, this is a a feature we haven't quite seen before or talked about in much detail, but this reader is is stateful in some sense. And this was actually true of all of the file IO we did in C whereby when you were using f read or some other function to read data from the file something was remembering where it was in the file so that you didn't get the same bites again and again and again. It was more like uh a cassette tape, an old school cassette tape if you will, or a scrubber along the bar uh along the bottom of like any streaming video whereby when you just read some data, it grabs the next chunk, the next chunk, the next chunk, the next chunk, and something inside of the computer's memory remembers where it is. So, this says skip to the next row. And thus, when you do four row in reader, you get everything but the first row because the reader is stateful. It remembers where it is in memory. All right. All right. Well, thus far this isn't all that useful because all I'm doing is just printing out the data. But let's take a step toward making this program a little more useful. In particular, let's just be a little more pedantic and specify that what I'm really doing here inside of this loop is figuring out what the current rows favorite is. So, I'm going to create a variable called favorite and set that equal to row bracket one. And then even though this doesn't change the functionality, I'm going to print that favorite just because semantically, stylistically, it's nice to know what row bracket one is as by defining a variable that tells me or anyone else who reads this code in the future what it's actually doing. All right, but readers are only so useful. And in fact, if I were to open up this CSV file, maybe in Microsoft Excel or Apple Numbers or Google Sheets, again, you could imagine someone kind of moving the data by just dragging one of the columns to the left or the right such that now it's no longer timestamp language problem. Maybe it's timestamp problem language or maybe time stamp is all the way over to the right. You could imagine therefore that the indices we're using 0 1 and two could be a little fragile because if someone changes the data on me now my code is just going to break because I am blindly assuming that the second column aka bracket 1 is going to be the language column but that might not be the case but there's an alternative to this and you might recall having seen this before. I'm going to go into favorites.py and tweak my code a little bit not just to use a reader but a dictionary reader. So I'm going to change this to dict reader instead of just reader. And then the upside of using a dictionary reader is that every time I go through this loop reading row by row by row, each row that I'm handed by this reader is not going to be a list anymore that's numerically indexed with zeros and ones and twos. Each row is going to be, as you might guess, a a dictionary, which is a collection of key value pairs, which means now we can use words as our indices instead of just numbers. Which is to say if I switch from reader which gives me lists to dict reader which gives me dictionaries I can change this line 10 now and say I specifically want the language column wherever it is all the way to the left or the middle or the right. So in general using a dictionary reader is probably just going to be more robust because it's resilient against changes in that actual numeric ordering. All right, let me pause here to see first if there's any questions on this exercise whose purpose in life is just to demonstrate how we can download the CSV data then iterate over it line by line without actually analyzing it yet. No. Okay. So let's ask maybe the most natural question which is like how many people prefer Python? How many people prefer C or Scratch in turn? In other words, how can we recreate in our own code what Google Forms is doing for us graphically with those pie charts? Well, I think what we could do is write some code logically that essentially relies on this mental model. What I have here is an opportunity to use a bunch of key value pairs because if I want to know how many instances of Python there are and C and Scratch, well, those might as well be three keys, the values of which are hopefully going to be three numbers that represent the counts of the popularity of each of those languages. So in memory, I essentially want to construct something that looks like this and would if I were doing this on a chalkboard. But recall that this mental model maps perfectly to the notion of a Python dictionary because a dictionary in Python is indeed key value pairs. And we've seen it already because that's how the dictionary reader works. But we could certainly use our own uh dictionaries to solve this same problem ourselves. So the goal at hand is to count the number of people who said Python and C and Scratch respectively. So how to do this? Well, I think what I could do is Oh, and actually let me delete this line. Because we are using a dictionary reader, we no longer need to skip the first row. It is automatically consumed by the dictionary reader for us. So, this now would be the better version of the dictionary reader. Let's go ahead and do this. Let me declare some variables first that will store for me the total number of people who said Python, Scratch, and C respectively. So, I could say Scratch equals 0, uh C equals Z, Python equals Z. And I could just set three variables equal to 0 0 0 and 0. If you haven't seen it before, there are some Pythonic uh tricks you can do here. If you've got three variables that you want to initialize all at once because it's that simple, you could alternatively do scratch, c, python equals 0, 0, 0. This too would have the intended effect and it looks a little better because it's all a simple oneliner. But what do I want to do now? Well, down here, let's go ahead and do a simple conditional before we enhance this by using an actual dictionary. Let me go ahead and say if the current favorite in that reader equals equals scratch. Well, let's go ahead and increment the scratch variable by doing plusals 1 as we saw last time. Uh, else if the favorite in the current row equals equals quote unquote C. Well, let's go ahead and then increment the C variable by one. uh else if the favorite equals equals Python, then let's go ahead and increment plus equals uh Python by one instead. I could technically get away with saying else here, but I'm consciously this time not trying to overoptimize this because if someone changes the form maybe next semester and whatnot and we're asking about a fourth language, I wouldn't want my code to assume that anything that isn't Scratch or C must be Python when there could be some future fourth language. So, this is a little more robust and in this case, we'll just ignore anything that isn't Scratch or C or Python. All right, at the end of this, let's go ahead and not just print out the favorite, but outside of the for loop, let's go ahead and print out, for instance, the Scratch count is this. Then, let's go ahead and print out the C count is this. And then let's print out the Python count is this. But, of course, there's a subtle bug here. Yeah. Ah, so I didn't format these things as f string. So I need the little f over here to the left of each of these strings. All right, so let me go ahead and maximize my terminal window, run Python of this version of favorites.py, and hopefully what we'll see is not every row again and again and again, but three lines of output, giving me the total counts instead. All right, this seems to line up with the rough percentages that we saw coming in earlier on Google Forms. 109 of you like Python, followed by 58 of you in C, and 24 of you preferring Scratch instead. All right, but why does this perhaps rub you the wrong way? I already alluded to the fact that we're going to get rid of this, but why is this not the best design just using three variables like this? Yeah, &gt;&gt; different categories. &gt;&gt; Yeah, exactly. If we were to add a bunch more languages, a fourth one, a fifth one, a sixth one, a 10th one, a 20th one, like having that many variables is just certainly going to look unwieldy and it's just not going to it shouldn't rub you the right way. At that point, we should really be graduating to some proper data structure, whether it was an array in C or better still in Python, an actual dictionary. So, let's do that instead. Let me go ahead and in a newer version of this file, let's get rid of these individual variables and let's just have a generic variable called counts, for instance, and set it equal to an empty dictionary. And just using two curly braces will give me an empty dictionary. Or if you want to be more pedantic, you can actually call the dict function, which will return to you an empty dictionary. I'd argue though that most people would probably just use the double curly braces like this to indicate that here comes a dictionary for me. Now, how do I use this? Well, I don't need to update three separate variables. I think I could just do something like this. I could say once I've determined what the current rows favorite value is for language, I could say counts bracket favorite. So, use the current string as an index into the dictionary. So, it's going to be quote unquote Scratch or C or Python. and then just increment that by one. And then down here, we don't have these variables anymore. So, I'm going to go ahead instead say uh how about this? We'll use a loop for each favorite in those counts. Let's go ahead and print out uh how about the favorite value and the counts thereof without any fing. Okay. So the only thing that's different is I'm using a dictionary here which is essentially the code version of this two column chart whose keys are going to be the favorite strings uh scratch or C or Python the values of which are going to be the actual counts and I'm just doing some simple math by plus+ing or incrementing the count each time I see a certain language. Unfortunately this code is not quite going to work. Let me go ahead and run Python of favorites.py Pi and dang it, there's a key error. Let me minimize the terminal window so we can see both at once. Why is there a key error apparently on line 11 wherein I'm indexing into the counts array uh dictionary? What's going on? Yeah, &gt;&gt; the key already exists. &gt;&gt; Yeah, it's a little subtle, but if this is like the very first time through the file, there is no key Python. There is no key C or scratch because no one has put them there. And yet recall that plus equal means you're going to that location in the dictionary and just blindly incrementing it. But what is it? Well, it's effectively a garbage value. But it's not even that because there's no actual key there. So we need to do a little bit of logic here. And we can solve this in a couple of ways. Well, I could say something very pedantically like this. I could just say, well, if this favorite is in the counts dictionary, this is the Pythonic way to ask that question. Is this key in this dictionary? If so, well, then it's safe to go ahead and increment it just as I've done before. But if it's not, what I think I want to do is set counts favorites equal to one instead because either I want to increment the current count by one or this is the first time logically I've seen this favorite so I want to set it equal to one instead. We could do this a different way logically just like we could in C solve problems differently. I could instead say something like this. I could get rid of all this code and just say if favorite not in count then I could say count bracket favorite equals zero. So just always initialize it to zero if it's not there. Now I can safely blindly update the count by one because now I know no matter what once I get to line 13 that count is actually there. All right, so let's see with this version of the code. Let's go ahead and clear my terminal window. Uh, rerun python of favorites.py. Cross my fingers. And there we go. Python and Scratch and C. Interestingly, the order switched around this time uh based on the order in which I was inserting things into the dictionary. But we'll see how we can exercise a bit more control over that. But let me propose that that key error. call. We discussed briefly last week that whenever you have these kinds of trace backs that refer to certain exceptions like exceptionally bad situations that can happen, you can also change your code to just try to do something and then try to catch the exception instead. So an alternative way to do what we initially did would be this. Instead of just blindly saying go into the counts dictionary, index into it at the favorite uh key and increment it by one, what we could do is try to do that. please, except if there is a key error, in which case, you know what, go ahead and just initialize that value to one instead. So, in short, there's like four different ways already to solve the same problem. Whichever way you prefer is quite reasonable. This is just another way and arguably another Pythonic way to do things by trying to do something but anticipating that something in fact can go wrong. A while ago you removed &gt;&gt; a while ago what &gt;&gt; you removed next reader. &gt;&gt; Correct. A while ago I removed next reader because that was only necessary for CSV reader because that was just reading every row again and again. But when you use a CSV dictionary reader that automatically consumes the first row because that's how the dictionary reader knows what the columns will be called and so you don't have to skip over it instead. A nice enhancement. other questions on what we've just done All right, so let me propose that like writing this amount of code is kind of annoying just to ask a relatively simple question like what's the most popular language in this file, right? You it's been nice. It's sort of a step backwards from Google spreadsheets and Apple numbers and Microsoft Excel where you could really just like highlight the column and it would just tell you the answer usually in the bottom righth hand corner or you could use a function in one of those spreadsheet tools to ask the same question. So, it's starting to feel like with almost a 20 lines of code, like maybe there's a better way. And I dare say there is. Rather than use a flat file database, let's graduate already to what the world calls a relational database. And a relational database is simply data in which you define relations among your data, which isn't so much relevant now except that that timestamp is associated with that language is associated with that uh prefer favorite uh problem as well. But we'll see that data sets can be much more uh much larger and more complicated. And it might be valuable if we can actually express relationships across multiple pieces of data. In particular, let's introduce already a programming language called structured query language or SQL for short, aka SQL. And SQL essentially only has four fundamental operations. So even though we're transitioning into a new language, by the end of today, we're going to transition out of the new language because there's only so much you can do. Now, as with any language, it's going to take time and practice or to sort of get a hold the hang of it. But take comfort in knowing that SQL really just supports four fundamental operations. And the acronym that the world uses is indeed CRUD, which stands for create, read, update, and delete. That is to say, when using a relational database, you can create data, read data, update the data, or delete data. And that's pretty comprehensive as to what's possible. Now, what is an actual database? Well, generally speaking, a database is just a piece of software that's running on a computer somewhere inside of which is stored a whole lot of data. And that database therefore provides you with access to that data at any time, whether it's on your local Mac or PC somewhere in the cloud or to a whole cluster of web servers, which we'll talk about in the weeks to come as we transition from uh command line tools to the web. Now, technically in SQL, the commands you actually use to implement this idea of creating data, reading data, updating, and deleting data is almost the same. But for whatever reason uh the world chose the command select which is equivalent to reading data. So we'll soon see that there's a command in SQL that lets us select data which is equivalent to this idea of reading it whereas the other three options refer of course to writing data that is changing data. Um technically speaking we'll be able to insert data into a database as we'll soon see and we'll also be able to drop data altogether not just delete individual rows but whole tables so to speak of uh rows instead. So what does this all mean? Well, let's go ahead and do say an example of using SQL to solve to ask some relatively simple questions and begin to develop some muscle memory for using this new language. If I were to manually load a bunch of data into a proper database for SQL, I would actually use code like this. I would literally type create table. Then I'd come up with the name of the table, aka sheet, and then I would specify every column that I want to put in that table. And here's where the vernacular changes. So whereas in the world of spreadsheets you have sheets, tabs that contain rows and columns, in the world of databases, you have tables which are just rows and columns. It's different terminology, but it refers to conceptually the same thing. In CS50, we're going to use a specific version of SQL known as SQL light, which is like a lightweight version of SQL that's actually very commonly used in web applications, in mobile applications, but it doesn't have all of the bells and whistles or all of the scalability uh that your Oracle, SQL Servers, Microsoft Access, Postgress, MySQL, those are just product names, open source and commercial like, which if you've ever heard of just represent uh bigger, faster versions of SQL databases. is, but we'll indeed use the lightweight version of it known as SQL light. And the command we're going to start to run is quite literally SQLite 3, which is version three of the same command, which we've pre-installed into your code spaces for you. So, let's go run a command called SQLite 3, which is going to let me create my very first SQLite database, and I'm going to import into that database the CSV file that we downloaded from Google Forms. In other words, I'm going to load that same data set into a different program, an actual database, so that I can use a completely different programming language to ask questions about it instead of writing, as we just did, some Python code. So, let me go back into VS Code here. Let me close my CSV file and my Python file. Let me reopen my terminal window and let me go ahead and run SQLite 3 space and then the name I want to give to this database, which for instance will be favorites. DB for database uh by convention. Enter. I'm going to be prompted to make sure I want to create this new file. Y for yes. Enter. And now I'm inside of the database running a command at a prompt that's now says SQL light and then an angle bracket. I'm not going to be using anySSQL files for now. Although you can actually write SQL code in separate text files. I'm actually going to use the databases interactive interpreter to just run all of the commands I want interactively by just typing them out. Semicolon enter. type it out, semicolon, enter, back and forth. But you can save all of these commands as you'll see in problem set 7 in files as well. Now, how do I go about actually importing that CSV file into this lightweight database? Well, for this, I'm going to execute three commands. And any command in SQLite that starts with a dot is specific to SQL light, this lightweight version of SQL. Anything that doesn't start with a dot is generalizable and will work on most any SQL database anywhere in the world, no matter the product you're using. So, I'm going to go ahead and in my SQLite terminal, I'm going to change my mode to CSV mode just to tell the database that I want to load some CSV data. I'm going to then literally import that data from a file called favorites.csv, which is the file we downloaded earlier and then uploaded to my code. And now I have to specify the name of a table. So, I'm going to call this table aka sheet favorites just to keep everything consistent. And that's it. In the absence of an error message, everything probably worked fine. I'm going to do gotquit. That quits out of SQLite. But what you'll now see if I type ls is that not only do I have favorites.csv, which I uploaded, favorites.py, which we wrote a few minutes ago, but I also now have favorites. DB, which is a database version of that same file. Now, I can't actually see what's inside of it because if I go ahead and run uh code of favorites db, I'm going to see this file is not displayed in the text editor because it is either binary or uses an unsupported text encoding. This is to be expected because this database is stored essentially in the form of zeros and ones that the SQLite 3 program knows how to read, but is not something that VS Code can just show me everything therein. And generally storing data in binary is going to be more efficient than storing things purely textually because we're going to be able to use various data structures and algorithms that we've been talking about for weeks uh more easily on that binary data. All right, so let's go ahead now and see what this import command did. I'm going to again uh maximize my terminal window. I'm going to go ahead and run SQLite 3 again, passing in favorites.db. Enter. This time it already exists so it just opened it without prompting me. And now I'm going to go ahead and type another SQLite specific command called schema. The schema of a database is just the design of the database. What does it look like? What are the rows and columns and tables therein? So if I type dots schema, what I'm going to see is this SQL command create table if not exists quote unquote favorites which is the name of the table. Then in parenthesis there are going to be apparently three columns. One of which is called time stamp. The next of which is called language. The third of which is called problem. And each of those columns is going to be raw text. Now we'll soon see that it doesn't have to just be text. But when I use the import command, this is the default table that SQLite created for me. Soon we'll see that I can exercise more control, especially over the types of data that I'm putting in this database. But what's really nice about the import command is it could not be easier to convert a CSV file to a SQLite database. So that now as we're about to see we can use SQL on it instead of Python or any other language Okay. So how do we go about getting data from this database? Well, the first of our commands that we'll explore is that one called select. So select data means to read data from the database. And in this sense, it's going to be a declarative language because I'm just going to declare what data I want to select from the database. And I'm not going to worry about opening the file anymore or iterating over it with a for loop or a while loop or defining variables or the like. I'm just going to select syntactically what I want. So let me go back to SQLite here. Let me clear my terminal just to get rid of the past commands. And let's do the first of these. Select star from favorites. And I