contraption that's ever been seen. Just put in your homework, then drop in a dime, snap on the switch, and in 10 seconds time, your homework comes out quick and clean as can be." Here it is. 9 + 4, and the answer is three. Three. Oh, me. I guess it's not as perfect as I thought it would be. This then was CS50. See you next time. already week 8. uh and up until now of course in so many of our problem sets like we've been writing command line code like a black and white terminal window and everything is very keyboard based very textual but of course like the apps that you and I are using like every day are in the form of a web browser and on our phone and so today and really for the rest of the semester we now transition to using all of the building blocks that we've been accumulating over the past few weeks but to redeploy them in the context of web apps and for your final project for instance if you so choose even mobile apps as well. So today we're going to understand how the internet that we use every day actually works. We're going to introduce you to a language called HTML which is the language in which web pages are written. A language called CSS which is the language with which web pages are stylized. And then lastly JavaScript which of those is the only actual programming language but even though we'll spend uh quite little time on it you'll see syntactically and functionally it's very similar to C to Python and languages indeed that have come before. All right. So we use the internet every day. So what exactly is it? Well, in the simplest form, like we've got networks in the world and networks are interconnections of computers, whether with wires or wirelessly. You have a network at home nowadays for the most part. You certainly have a network on a campus like this. In corporations, you have networks. So interconnections of computers. As soon as you start networking the networks, if not networking the networks of networks, you have in effect the internet. So this global interconnection of computers, servers, devices and so many other things literally nowadays that we take for granted every day. But how does it actually work and where did it come from? Well, if we rewind to like 1969, the internet in its original form really something known as ARPANet for the advanced research projects agency, a project from the Department of Defense that was really designed to interconnect what limited supercomputers we had back then that were otherwise geographically inaccessible to so many researchers and others. The internet or ARPANET really just looked like this with UCLA and just a few other nodes so to speak interconnected somehow. Uh just a year or so later did we have Harvard and MIT and others on the east coast. And if we fast forward now to today of course we can find and route data most anywhere in the world. And in fact the world is now filled with these things called routers. A router is just a computer a server uh that routes data up down left right geographically. And of course in the real world it might go out this wire here, out this wire here, out this wire or out this wire. And in fact, just to make more real what we're about to be talking about when we talk about networks of computers and eventually the internet, um we engaged some of our teaching fellows over the past few years to perform a a little skit of sorts for us using uh Zoom, if you will, whereby each of the teaching fellows or humans you're about to see consider them as representing a router, a device on the internet whose purpose in life is to route data. And what they're routing is what we're going to start calling packets. packets of information which metaphorically you can think of as just like a little white envelope like this that we use to send things via snail mail via the US Postal Service or beyond that internationally. So I give you in just 60 seconds or so what it means to send a packet on the internet for instance from Phyllis in the bottom right hand corner to a familiar face Brian at top left. If we could dim the lights if only to be dramatic. Thank you. Sure, we can clap for that. And we actually should clap for that because you're seeing the sort of final version which looked kind of perfect, but they were all smiling and clapping because it took us so many damn takes to like actually get the coordination of that correct. But for now, assume that it was in fact correct. But notice what's among the takeaways from even that little skid is that the packet, the envelope from Phyllis to Brian could have taken any number of paths. It could have gone up and then to the left. It could have gone left and then up. It could have zigzagged and the like. And that's actually representative of how the world now looks because of so many wires and so many wireless connections. There's actually a lot of ways that data can travel from point A to point B. And it turns out it's not even necessarily going to be the shortest difference. It might be the least expensive dis uh distance uh or perhaps just the result of how some humans or somehow some servers have automatically configured the d the uh routes to get from point A to point B. So let's consider how the data is actually getting there. So long story short, all of those routers and indeed all devices on the internet including the ones in your pocket or on your laps speak a language, more technically a protocol nowadays known as TCP IP. And this is actually a pair of protocols which is a set of conventions that governs how computers behave on the internet. In the human world, we have protocols as well. For instance, when I meet someone for the first time, I very often instinctively sort of extend my hand just sort of hoping that they too will extend their hand and shake. And that's a human protocol in that it governs how to people in that case intercommunicate. Well, servers have the same kinds of protocols, but it's all textbased or bit based instead of of course physical. But TCP and e and IP are two different protocols that solve two different problems. And let's focus on the last of them first. So IP short for internet protocol is simply a protocol that decides to give all of us a unique address in the world. In other words, there are these things called IP addresses. It's a numeric address that literally every computer in the world has in order to uniquely identify it. Case in point, in the real world, we have addresses too. For instance, in this building here, Memorial Hall, we're at 45 Quincy Street, Cambridge, Massachusetts 02138 USA. And theoretically that unique identifier should get an envelope in the physical world to this location from any other in the real world. IP as applied to the internet just means that similarly do devices, Macs, PCs, phones, and everything else on the internet have a unique identifier as well known as an IP address. It's a number, but it's typically formatted in dotted decimal notation, so to speak. So it's something dot something dot something dot something. And just as a bit of trivia, each of these number signs represents a value from 0 to 255. So there are four such values apparently. And just doing some quick week zero math, if each of those values can be 0 to 255, how many bits is an IP address presumably? &gt;&gt; So eight bits per number. And how many was this? &gt;&gt; So 32 bits because if you're counting from 0 to 255, well that's 256 total possibilities. That's two to the eth which means 8 bits. 8 bits. 8 bits. 8 bits. So IP addresses are 32 bits. Little trivia that's germanine only in so far as it does kind of limit how many total devices we could seem to have in the world. If you've got only 32 bits, how high can you count? Roughly &gt;&gt; two. &gt;&gt; So two to the 32nd power, which we've generally ballparked as 4 billion, which is to say you can have 4 billion devices total, it would seem on the internet, which is a big number. But there's also a lot of humans nowadays. is and odds are most everyone in this room has at least two devices to their name. Maybe a phone and a laptop with which you're taking the course. Maybe even more devices thanks to the internet of things like smart home devices. We have so many IP addresses being assigned to things. So long story short, the world is gradually transitioning from this version here, IPv4, uh to IPv6, which instead of using 32 bits is actually using 128 bits, which is crazy large and gives us more than enough IP addresses for the foreseeable future. To be fair, we've been talking about this for like 20, 30 years, transitioning from V4 to V6, and it's still gradually in motion. But for simplicity in the class and in general, we'll still use IPv4, if only because it's a little easier to wrap your mind around. Now, this is admittedly a pretty arcane diagram. But this is the diagram, ASI art, if you will, that's in the U official specification of what we mean by an IP datagramgram. More colloquially, this is what a packet actually looks like. Now, what are we looking at? Well, you're just looking at like a grid of bits. So this here represents 32 bits total where this is bit zero and that's bit 31 zero indexed all the way over there. And then each row represents 32 more bits. 32 more bits. 32 more bits. Which is to say anytime a computer like Phyllis sends an envelope of information on the internet. It contains at least this information. A whole bunch of bits broken down into bytes. Now, the only ones we'll really care about today are this one here, source address, which is to say when Phyllis sends that packet, she writes her source address, her IP address, something on the outside of the envelope, so to speak. And she also puts Brian's IP address, whatever that is, something else something else on the outside of the envelope as well. There's a whole bunch of other bits involved which are useful, but we'll wave our hands at those for today. But that really speaks to what's actually happening. And if we do this metaphorically in the real world, it's kind of like taking out that envelope. And for instance, if Brian's IP address is 1.23.4 for the sake of discussion, Phyllis in advance of our filming that bit would have written something like 1.23.4 in the middle of the envelope, just like we would in the real world. But presumably, she wants Brian to be able to reply to acknowledge receipt or send his own message. So, she's also going to put her IP address, for instance, in the top left corner of the envelope, 5.67.7.8 for the sake of discussion, so that Brian knows when he writes out his own packet of information how to actually or to whom to reply. But at the end of the day, it's all just bits uh being sent in a specific pattern and there is formal documentation is the the order in which all of those bits will actually be sent out on the wire or wirelessly. So in short, IP ensures that all of us have unique IP addresses via which data can go from us or to us. But that's only one problem. Nowadays, of course, servers can do so many other things. They can do email and chat and video conferencing, game servers, and who knows what. And it would be nice if a single server certainly could do multiple things. And in fact, that's very much the case. Single servers nowadays, and a server is just a term of art for a computer used to serve information to other people. By contrast, our laptops, our desktops are generally clients because they only serve one of us, not multiple people. But these are just uh terms of art. We're describing at the end of the day still computers. IP only ensures that we can uniquely address computers on the internet. But there's another protocol in TCPIP, namely the TCP portion that allows computers to uniquely identify services that they're offering uh to the rest of the world. So for instance, TCP allows it allows a computer to distinguish whether it has received a packet that's an email or receive a packet that's a chat message or a piece of a video conference or the like, which is to say there's more than just IP addresses on the outside of these envelopes. There are also what are called port numbers as well. Uh similarly, numeric uh numeric values that are usually in the range of like 0 to one uh zero on up in the low thousands and they're standardized. For instance, if you are requesting a web page using http slash with which all of us are presumably familiar, unbeknownst to you, on the outside of the virtual envelope that your computer subsequently sends is the port number 80. Because when the server receives that, it knows, oh, this human is requesting a web page and not, for instance, their email or something else. or nowadays if you're using HTTPS where the S denotes secure in the URL you're actually using port 443 which is just an arbitrary number that a bunch of humans in a room decided on years ago to standardize what goes on the outside of an envelope. So just to be more clear then when Phyllis is sending a request to Brian and if Phyllis for instance is the client just a human using a computer and Brian in this story is now a web server better yet a secure web server that's somehow encrypting or scrambling the information to keep it secure well on the outside of this envelope after Brian's IP address which was 1.2.3.4 four. Phyllis is also going to write the number 443 so that when Brian receives and opens this envelope, he knows what he's looking at. A request for a web page and not an email or a chat message or something else. Moreover, we can continue the story just a little bit further. Phyllis also writes on the envelope not only her IP address 5.67.8, but some number as well in that top lefthand corner, whatever it happens to be, which is a port number via which Brian can reply to her. In this way, Phyllis can in effect have multiple tabs open, be using Zoom and uh some chat software or something else, running multiple programs on her computer, and the internet packets are all coming in, but her computer knows to which tabs or applications those packets belong. So, if you really want to geek out, here's what this thing looks like. This is just the sequencing of bits for TCP as well, which is to say, in addition to the dozens of bits we looked at a moment ago that standardize what IP is putting on the outside of the envelope, TCP is adding uh 16 bits that specify a port number, which means you can indeed have tens of thousands of possible port numbers, a destination port number, and a bunch of other stuff, including this so-called sequence number, which happens to be a 32bit value, which is actually pretty important because quite often when sending messages on the internet, they're pretty large. And it would be nice if one person downloading a big image or one person downloading a movie or streaming a movie doesn't mean that no one else on the internet can do something else at that moment in time. So for the sake of discussion, suppose that this very happy cat here is a very large JPEG, for instance, a very large graphical file. It would be nice, let's say, that if Phyllis is trying to send or receive an image as large as this, it's not just in one massive envelope that's going to prevent a whole bunch of other users from similarly using the internet at that moment in time. So, at the risk of a a bit of heresy, we can actually tear this cat in half and fragment it really. And then inside of Phyllis's envelope or equivalently Brian's reply depending on where this cat is coming from or going to part of that cat can go in this envelope. And now say in the bottom left hand corner of this envelope, Phyllis or Brian could write the sequence number in question. One out of four, two out of four, three out of four, four out of four. So that when this and hopefully the other packets arrive at their destination, the recipient's computer can check, okay, this was a really big file in this case. Do I have all of the parts? Yes, it can be inferred from the so-called sequence number which we've represented there in that memo field of the envelope. There's a bunch of other stuff that can go on here too, including prioritization of data as well. Um, but ultimately TCP just allows servers to handle multiple types of services and also allows it to receive data reliably because if for instance a recipient only gets two out of the four packets or three out of the four packets, the fact that there's a sequence number involved is enough information for that recipient to say to the sender, hey, I'm missing one or two or three or more packets. Please resend them. So in short, TCP guarantees delivery by just doing some bookkeeping on the outside of these envelopes. So in short, IP allows us to uniquely identify computers and TCP guarantees delivery and allows us to multiplex so to speak among multiple services on the same device. Questions on the uh this jargon thus far because today's filled with acronyms unfortunately. questions on IP, TCP or anything else. Okay, so seeing none, uh, as promised, let's do yet another acronym. So, it would be pretty tedious if Phyllis and Brian and all of us humans had to write actually IP addresses into our browsers when visiting websites. Uh, and in fact, most of us never do that. Instead, we go to google.com or Harvard.edu edu or actual domain name so to speak which were so much easier for us humans to remember than these arbitrary IP addresses that are either automatically assigned to computers or manually configured uh by humans configuring servers but there's another acronym in the world and there's another technology used on the internet namely DNS for domain name system and this is just a certain type of server that every home has if even if you didn't know it every uh campus has every company has there's so many DNS servers around the world but their purpose in life quite simply is to translate what you and I know as domain names like google.com, harvard.edu and the like into their corresponding IP addresses. And so in short, inside of these DNS servers are essentially like a two column table or spreadsheet, however you want to think about it, whereby here's all of the domain names in the world. Here are all of the corresponding IP addresses in the world. And so when your Mac or PC or phone being used by you is trying to access google.com or harbor.edu, edu. That device certainly when it's first booted up has no idea what IP address what the IP address is for that server. It's not the case that Apple or Google are pre-installing billions of IP addresses inside of our devices. But your device is smart enough to ask the local network at home on campus or at work. Well, what is the IP address of google.com? What is the IP address of harbor.edu? Then what your Mac, PC or phone actually do upon getting that answer from one of these local DNS servers is it writes the corresponding IP address on the outside of that envelope. So it's a wonderfully useful service that just makes the internet more useful for you and I to use because we can use names instead of IP addresses as well. Um technically these things are called fully qualified domain names. Where do they come from? Well, some of you might actually have your own personal website. You might have gone through this process. It's actually not that hard to get your own domain name. You can go to any number of what are called internet registars and pay them some money and it's essentially a on a rental basis. So you rent a domain name for a year or maybe three or five years at a time and they can automatically bill you. The domain name might be as little as a dollar per year or thousands of dollars per year depending on whether someone has scooped it up and is maybe squatting or the like. But all you do ultimately is pay someone money and they give you the rights to use that domain name. And then what you do technically is you configure some DNS server somewhere in the world to know what the eventual IP address is for your server that's going to serve up your domain names, web pages. And long story short with DNS, I say that you have one in your home and on your work and on your campus because it's a very hierarchical kind of structure. like there is out there somewhere these so-called root servers that essentially know what all the IP addresses are of all of the dotcoms for instance or all of theus or the like but my Mac doesn't know that and so my Mac might actually ask that root server what is that IP address but in ter more efficiently my Mac is better still going to ask the local network first when I'm at home it asks my home DNS server which is built into the little home router that you've got somewhere in there uh or if you're on campus it asks Harvard's DNS server And this whole design is recursive to borrow a term from a few weeks ago in that if my computer doesn't know the answer, what's the IP address for this domain? If Harvard doesn't know the answer, it eventually gets escalated to those so-called root servers, but then cached that is remembered by all of these other DNS servers along the way. So, it's a very elegant hierarchical design, but at the end of the day, it's just doing this. It's a big cheat sheet of domain names to IP addresses, and the server is responding for us. All right, one more acronym. So, how do I know what my MAC's IP address should be? How do I know what my phone's IP address should be? Uh, how do I know what the IP address is of the DNS server of whom I should be asking any of these questions? How do I know the IP address of the router to whom to hand my data off to? Like, there's a lot of assumptions built into the story we've been telling. And the answer is, unfortunately, yet another acronym, DHCP, is the solution to all of those problems. And it wasn't always. You know, back in my day, we used to have to manually type in what our computer's IP address was based on what some human told us it would be. We had to type in our DNS server, type in our router address. But now, uh, now DHCP is just yet another server running in your home network, running on campus, running in your corporate network whose purpose in life is to answer questions of the form, what is my IP address? which is to say when you boot up your Mac, your PC, your phone for the first time, it essentially broadcasts a message like hello world, what's my IP address? And hopefully there's one such DHCP server on that local network wired or wirelessly that will respond based on how Harvard or Comcast or Verizon or someone at home has configured it to tell you what your devices IP address is, what the IP is of your local router, what the IP address is or are of your DNS servers and the like. And so this is why things just work nowadays once you've connected to like a Wi-Fi network or physically plugged in. Dynamic host configuration protocol didn't always exist. Wonderful that it now does. All right, enough sort of outside of the envelope stuff. Everything else today will be a deeper dive inside the inside of this envelope to look at what actually are the messages that we are sending, receiving, how are you structuring the web pages and designing everything that comes back from the server to the client. And let's dive in then to this acronym HTTP which you've been typing for years or seeing for years even though you don't really have to type it anymore because browsers just assume that this is what you want. But HTTP is another protocol, hypertext transfer protocol, whose purpose in life is to request web pages and receive web pages. As a protocol, it just standardizes like what goes inside of that envelope when you're trying to use the web. There are different protocols for email, different protocols for Zoom, different protocols for Discord, and any number of other internet services. We'll focus predominantly today on HTTP, which happens to use ports 80 and 443, among others, as we saw. So let's see what HTTP uh it uh is all about or HTTPS the corresponding secure version thereof. So here is a URL canonical URL in that it has a whole bunch of components. Let's consider what some of the jargon is that we're going to start taking for granted. So if you go to httpswww.agample.com/ you are implicitly requesting the root of that website. root just means the default directory, the default folder if you will. And that's what the yellow highlighted slash here just means like give me the default web page. Technically speaking, what you're going to receive in your browser, unbeknownst to you, is an actual file. By convention, it's a file called index.html, maybe index.htm, or any number of other files. But it would be pretty stupid if we as humans all had to type out the actual file name that we want. So the server by default is just going to return you the root of the website. If though you're inside of a folder or you do actually click on a link that leads you to a file, you might very well have at the end of this domain name a full path as well, which might contain zero or more folder names and zero or more file uh zero or one file names as well. In fact, it could be explicitly file.html orfolder/or/folder/file.html. You've probably seen thousands of these over time, even if you haven't really given it much thought. So we today onward will be creating all of this stuff here but we need to understand what's going on to the left too. So here is the so-called domain name or more properly the fully qualified domain name and it has a few different parts too. So this is technically the domain name as we all refer to it something.com means commercial and that com is more specifically known as a tople domain or tldd. Back in the day there were only a few of these.gov.com.net.org org.edu and a bunch of others. Now, there's hundreds, if not thousands of them. Many of them aren't really used prominently in the wild, but there are some not on that original list, like CS50 uses. IO a lot, which doesn't mean input output. It's actually a two-letter country code that has been uh uh essentially rented to us and anyone else using that same TL because in the English- speakaking world, io actually sounds kind of cool. It's kind of conotes indeed input and output.tv TV is another one that actually belongs to a country but in fact also sounds like uh in English television and so that too has been used as well but in general there are top level domains like these some of them now are full words some of them are two characters denoting they belong to a country they are the sort of top level indeed uh categorization of all of these websites meanwhile many URLs but not all also have something to the left of the domain name known as a host name which technically speaking refers to the name of the server that you're requesting specifically. It doesn't have to be literally one server. www can refer to dozens of hundreds thousands of servers. Indeed, if you go to any popular website like gmail.com or the like. Even though you only have one domain name, somehow or other technologically it is referring to clusters of hundreds or thousands of servers that ensure that they can handle all of the customers that might visit that site. And then lastly, there's this the scheme or the protocol in use specifically. And for our discussion today, it's always going to be HTTPS, which is ideal because it's secure and encrypted somehow. Uh, but it can also be indeed HTTP col. So that's it. Like that's just the jargon with which you should be familiar when it comes to URLs like these. And what we'll be doing today is actually creating content that lives at URLs like that and serving it up to us. But what do the messages ultimately look like that are going inside of these envelopes? what the URLs are doing are just getting us to the right place. But how do we express in some form of code that we want this fileh from this server using encryption in this way? Well, inside of the virtual envelopes that Phyllis was sending to Brian and he would have ultimately sent back to her are messages that look like this. Uh get, post, and a bunch of other verbs, if you will. So, HTTP supports a bunch of operations or verbs, namely get, post, and a few others. And it was in the the first of these that Phyllis would have put inside of her envelope initially in order to get a web page like a cat from Brian. Specifically, inside of the envelope, she would have had a textual message. It's not code per se. There's no functions or loops or variables or anything like that. It's a protocol just in the sense that humans years ago standardized what messages should appear inside of those envelopes if you want to get a web page from a server. So for instance, if Brian in this story is now suddenly harvard.edu, specifically www.har.edu, Phyllis's envelope would have contained a message saying get in all caps slash if she just wants the root or the default page from Brian's server, the version of HTTP that she's using, for instance, version two. And she would also specify just in case Brian is multitasking and serving up websites for different domain names on the same physical box which actual host that she wants and maybe a bunch of other lines as well. And hopefully if all goes well, Brian would have responded with an envelope of his own containing an HTTP response in answer to her HTTP request. And Brian's envelope would have contained a textual message that just confirms what version of HTTP he's using, a status code, which is an arcane number that just indicates in this case that everything is okay. All is well, and he would specify the type of content he's sending back to her in his own envelope because it could be HTML. More on that to later today. It could be a JPEG, it could be a GIF, it could be any number of other file formats. And this is just a hint to Phyllis's browser as to what's going to be inside of that envelope she is getting back within her browser. And then maybe a bunch of other stuff as well. So even though some of these details like these underlying implementation details might visually be new to you if you've never really thought about it, turns out we as aspiring programmers can actually see and and poke around with these building blocks and ultimately today take advantage of them. So you're about to see a program that's called curl which stands for connect URL. It's installed in Linux systems like cs50.dev. It's also comes with Macs and PCs quite frequently or you can easily install it. And essentially it's a headless browser that allows you to pretend to be a browser and grab the response from a server by pretending to send by actually sending the contents of an envelope like this. So for instance, if I want to pretend to be a browser and request harbor.edu, edu. I can type this in my cs50.dev terminal window. And let me go ahead and maximize its size and do the following. curl- i, which specifically is only going to show me the headers, the text that we were just talking about. And it's not going to send any of the contents of Harvard's website. Curl- capital I httpswww.harboard.edu/. So if I were typing this into a browser, I would actually see Harvard's homepage. In this case, I'm just going to see the contents of the envelope as black and white text on the screen. Specifically, only the first few lines, the so-called headers that the server is responding with, just as I claimed Brian would to Phyllis. I hit enter, and there's indeed more lines than I had in my slide, but you can see that everything is in fact 200. Okay, this is a convention. 200 means all is indeed okay. There's a bunch of other information here, including the date and time in which this response came back. Here's that content pipeline text HTML and then some other details and a whole bunch of other information as well. So that's one way of seeing what's going on underneath the hood. Well, what other responses might come back? Well, it turns out that 200, okay, is the best possible outcome, but there's another a bunch of other outcomes that are possible as well. For instance, sometimes you'll get not 200 but 301, which means moved permanently. uh it uh colloquially speaking and what does this mean? Well, if a server responds to a browser with a numeric code of 301, that means that the browser is supposed to go to this location instead. It's sort of like putting a detour sign on the server that says there's nothing for you here. Go over here to this location instead. And now notice in this example, it's telling the user to go to httpsw.har.edu/ do slash that's actually what I typed before so I would not have seen that myself but if I go back to VS Code here and let's run the exact same command but let's try to visit the insecure version of Harvard's website http slash which just means that anyone else on the internet can technically see what it is I am now doing with my browser which might not be desirable enter this time Harvard server does not just tell me 200 okay it actually says 301 move permanently and if I read lower in these lines there indeed is the location to which I should actually go and it's a subtle difference. It's forcing me to go to https instead without actually showing me the contents of Harvard's website. So nowadays you and I don't even have to think about this. You and I are not even in the habit surely of typing http or https col. But the browser is ensuring in this case that you are redirected so to speak automatically to the secure version of that site instead. Now there's other status codes and in fact even if you never realized it before now what numeric code do you essentially you sometimes see on the internet when something goes wrong 404. So 404 is a weirdly public arcane error number error number or status code that just means file not found. And we can simulate this as follows. For instance if I in my terminal window do curl-hwww.har.edu I'll suppose that Harvard has a whole department dedicated to cats, which it does not. But if I hit enter here, you'll see that I get an HTTP24 status code, which just means the website does not in fact exist. And if I visited https/www.har.edu/cats in my browser, I would presumably see some error page that may or may not show me visually 404. But many websites, most websites, for better or for worse, reveal this number. So much so that most everyone in this room is probably familiar with 404, even though its origin is this very low-level arcane status code buried in the HTTP headers inside of envelopes like these. There's a whole bunch of others if you'd like some fun facts. Uh 200 is indeed okay. 301 is moved permanently. There's a bunch of other 300 ones that all relate to go elsewhere. Uh 400 generally means that you as the user have somehow done something wrong or next week as we start writing code that talks to web servers. Maybe your code has done something wrong when requesting a website. 500s are really bad. It means the server is messed up somehow. Either it's not available or the programmer made some bug in their code such that it's crashing with for instance something like an internal server error. Uh, we included 418, which is not actually a thing, but it was a fun uh um sort of April Fool's joke years ago where a bunch of uh humans thought it would be funny to write up a whole specification for what it means for a server to respond with a number of 418. Inside joke, not funny at the moment, but uh it is sort of part of internet lore nowadays. Um we can have a little bit of fun with this, maybe with the at the expense of our dear friends down the road. Um, for years now, someone has been paying for uh the following behavior. Let me go back to V uh VS Code here in my terminal window. Let me do curl- httpsychool.org. Have you ever been ever reply perhaps? Well, let me actually go to httpsafetyschool.org and just for fun, hit enter. Oh my goodness, look at where we are. So, how is this implemented? Well, if I finish what I began over here by just looking at the HTTP headers inside of the envelope my actual browser just sent to safetychool.org for like 20 years, presumably some Harvard alum has been paying the bill to rent this domain name just to have this trick implemented such that 301 move permanently is directing people ever since to yale.edu. There's a bunch of others if you go down the rabbit hole of looking on Reddit and the like Stanford, Berkeley, there's a healthy competition on East Coast and West Coast, but it all boils down to very arcane understanding of how HTTP works, the protocol that governs how data is sent from web browsers to web servers. Now, you can of course use curl for connecting to URLs in the context of something like CS50. You could have been doing stuffing stuff like this all the time though with your actual browser. So, I'm using Chrome here, but most any browser nowadays has the ability to give you developer tools uh natively, which is to say somewhere there should be an a menu option that lets you use developer tools that are conducive to someone who knows a bit of programming to poking around underneath the hood of the browser and see what's going on. For instance, I'm going to go ahead and open up a new window here, and I'm going to rightclick on the background, or I can go to the appropriate menu in Chrome's dot dot dot menu, and I'm going to go to inspect, which pulls up what we're going to call developer tools. I'm doing it incognito mode for reasons we'll see next week. This has the effect of clearing automatically any of my cookies, my browser history, because most anytime I do something with the web browser today, I want to pretend like I'm doing it for the very first time so that the behavior is exactly as we suspect. uh expect. So down here, now that I've opened up the so-called developer tools in Chrome, and they look almost the same in Safari and Edge and a bunch of other browsers as well, I will see a tab called elements, which shows me all of the elements of this web page once it appears, including the so-called HTML code we're about to write. I can see a console where error message might sometimes appear, similar in spirit to the terminal window in VS Code. I can also see the network connections that the browser is making to the server. And that's where I thought we'd start our attention here. Here I have a brand new browser window. I'm clicking on network over here. Um, just to make sure we can see everything without it getting automatically deleted, I've clicked on preserve log and disable cache just so that it behaves exactly as expected. And now let's go up here for the first time in this incognito window and go to http/safetieschool.org. Enter. And you'll see a whole bunch of output including this warning in this particular mode. This is increasingly common nowadays for websites that do not support HTTPS, which this alum hasn't been paying for. Uh you'll get a warning typically that specifies you might not want to do this because the whole world, at least the whole world between you and point B, might know what it is you're uh accessing on the web. I can go ahead and pass through this. In fact, once I do that and click on connect to site, we'll see even more output at the bottom and a whole bunch of output that's kind of overwhelming. Notice at bottom left here, just going to safetychool.org resulted in 61 HTTP requests, in effect, 61 envelopes going back and forth. I'm going to focus though on the ones at the very top here, whereby when we finally click through that warning, and I got back a response from the server, having visited safetieschool.org, here is Chrome's presentation of the same information that curl was showing me in my terminal window. The message that came back was 301 move permanently. The protocol or the verb being used was get. There's some uh mentions of the IP address in question here and a whole bunch of other stuff that we'll wave our hands at for today. So all of this time you can see the same and let's try this with some cats. Let me click on the little ghostbuster symbol to clear everything uh down in the developer tools. Let me zoom out and this time let me go to httpsw.har.edu/cats edu/cats which recall did not exist according to curl. If I hit enter, I do see a web page. It's interesting that Harvard has chosen to fairly arcanely reveal to all visitors 404, which means nothing except in so far as the status code. But if I scrolled through all of the 59 requests that were involved and just displaying this very graphical page and go back to the top, you'll see by clicking on the first row for cats itself that I used get to get it uh that URL/cats in the end and it was indeed 404 not found. So you can sort of have all this fun on your own by just poking underneath the hood of what your browser has been hiding from you all of this time. All right. Any questions now before we dive in? No. All right. Well, that's the network tab. Let's look at some of the others and see how we can start writing the stuff oursel. Let me go to stanford.edu. Enter. A whole bunch of things will fly across the screen, but this time I'm going to go to the elements tab. And what we're about to dive into is an actual language, not a programming language, a markup language called HTML, hypertext markup language, whose purpose in life is just to tell browsers what to display on the screen. So here is all of the so-called HTML that some human or humans or software at Stanford wrote in order to create Stanford's homepage, which as of today looks lovely like this. Uh the interesting thing though about the code that Stanford has written to generate this website is that it's being sent to me as a copy. And this is quite unlike the code we've been writing thus far. Um when you wrote code in Scratch, it was sort of there in the browser and stored on MIT server. When you wrote C code and ran it, it was inside of the code space and not given to any user who might access it. The way the web works though is a little bit different. Inside of those envelopes are literally copies of what's on the server being sent to the browser. And so it's your browser, the so-called client, that's actually reading that code, HTML in this case, top to bottom, left to right, and figuring out how to display it. It's not executed on the server per se. Now, that story is going to change a bit next week when we start using Python to dynamically generate HTML so that we're not writing all of this code by hand after this week, but for now, everything you see was the result of the browser executing code that Stanford wrote. The implication of that is that we can have a bit of fun with these same developer tools. For instance, if I control-click or rightclick on something like the word Stanford in the middle middle of their homepage, choose that same inspect option. What's nice about these developer tools is it's going to jump to the very line of code that created that Stanford brand name in the middle of the web page. And this is a wonderful teaching and learning tool because in the days to come when you're trying to learn more and more HTML, you can literally do this for any website on the internet and understand how it is someone implemented a design for instance that you really like and you can learn from other websites how they've constructed the same. So over here you'll see that the word Stanford is just in the source code of this page in the so-called HTML and you know just for fun I can change it to Harvard. Hit enter and now Stanford's website looks like we've been there um and rather hacked it. Of course, it's not that easy to hack Stanford's website. What have I presumably only done just now? I've changed my local copy of that particular website. So, if I just click on the reload icon, I'll actually see that Stanford's website, for better, for worse, still looks like that. But this speaks to now the control that we have within our browser to actually manipulate and learn from what it is that's going on underneath the hood. So, let's dive into this language called HTML, hypertext markup language. It's not a programming language, which means we're going to fly through it even quicker than usual because it really just contains some basic building blocks that do have some interesting intellectual design under them, but for the most part, it becomes an exercise ultimately and just like looking up other tags that exist, read the documentation and figure out how you can use them to do other features in websites. So, let's take a look at perhaps the simplest of webpage and specifically glean from them what tags are and what attributes are. really the only two terms of art that are going to be generained for this particular language. No loops, no conditionals, no variables, no complexity really other than basic building blocks like these. So here is HTML for the simplest of websites. This is like a mini version of what Stanford's uh team presumably wrote on their server, but it's only like a dozen lines of code instead of hundreds or thousands, however long that website was. Any web page written today, assuming it's using the latest version of HTML, which happens to be version five as of today, uh begins with code that looks like this. This kind of code will presumably be stored in a file called file.html, uh index.html, Stanford.html, whatever the file is actually named. This is simply what's going to be inside of the contents. You could save this file on your own Mac, open it up, and your browser would open it, but you're going to be the only one in the world that can actually see the contents of that web page if it's just on your Mac or just on your PC. So, we of course are going to be writing HTML on a server so that not just you, but in theory, especially for your final project, anyone on the world with an internet connection can access the same. So, we within the context of CS50.dev dev are going to start using this new command HTTP server whose purpose in life is just to serve up files via HTTP. Now, there's kind of an interesting design going on here because if we use ht if we use uh cs50.dev, otherwise known as GitHub code spaces, there's already a web server running on that website because when you go to cs50.dev dev and log in and get redirected some longer URL. You're using a web application aka VS Code that allows you to write code in the cloud. Now, that application by default is running on port 80 and 443. So, it doesn't matter if you start at HTTP or HTTPS, both will work. But that means that your code that we write today and you write for the next problem set or for your final project can't live at port 80 or port 443 because GitHub, the company that hosts this, is already using those default standard ports. But we can use any number of other port numbers. I claimed earlier there's tens of thousands of numbers that we could use. So that's what we're actually going to do. So let me go back to VS Code here. Let me shrink down my terminal window. Let me create a first file today called for instance uh hello.html. Enter. And now I've got an empty tab as usual. I'm going to very quickly whip up the exact same contents that we just saw. So an angled bracket, an exclamation point, dock type HTML, then open bracket HTML, close bracket, and notice the autocomplete kicked in for this particular language. So I don't have to type everything myself. Inside of this tag, so to speak, I'm now going to put a head tag inside of which is going to be a title tag. I'm going to say something like hello title just to be quick. And then down here below those lines, I'm going to put a so-called body tag inside of which is hello body just for some quick text. And that's it. This is now a file inside of my code space. And there's no command to just compile or run this in the terminal because the goal is going to be to open this HTML file with a browser. If I want to do that in another browser tab, I need to tell code my code space to serve that file via HTTP. So, the simplest way to do this is as follows, http-server enter. You're going to see a whole bunch of text on the screen. You're going to see a green button hopefully pop up that says open in browser, which is going to allow you to open up, and I'll zoom in the contents of the current folder with a web browser. My URL has changed to be different from what it was a moment ago. I came in advance today with my own folder of code like we usually do. Source 8, which contains all of today's pre-made examples. But here is the file I just created a moment ago. And if I click on that hello.html, what we're looking at at the moment is just a directory listing, a directory index of all of the files in my code right now, I see the simplest of web pages. It's a little underwhelming, but clearly here's hello body, which takes up like 95% of the screen, the so-called viewport, which is just a big rectangular region of the screen, but there's the title in the tab up there. So, if you've ever wondered or cared like where does the content in a web page come from, well, here's the body content. Here's the head or the title content. And then everything else is just sort of icing on the cake. So, I've written at this point a file called hello.html. it has yielded this effect of having something in the head uh in the uh the head of the page and the body. But let's actually tease apart what just happened. So at the start of any file written in this language called HTML, the latest version thereof, five, it literally just starts with this. And this is just the kind of thing you memorize or copy paste. Uh open bracket exclamation point dot type HTML close bracket over there. It looks a little bit different because we're not going to use for the most part the exclamation point syntax anywhere else unless we're using an HTML comment. So HTML has comments just like Python, C and other languages. But let's focus really on this juicier part. Here we have what's known as an uh an element in HTML. An element includes a start tag and an end tag or equivalently an open tag and a close tag. So here for instance is syntax that essentially is going to tell the browser when my browser reads this file top to bottom left to right hey browser here comes the HTML of my page and the language in which the contents of this page are written are in English. So HTML all lowercase is the name of the tag so to speak and equivalently the name of the element. Lang is what's going to be called an attribute which just modifies the default behavior of the uh element and quote unquote en is the value thereof which is the shorthand notation for English and their shorthand notations for most every human language as well. So you have a tag name and an attribute with a value. And we've seen these things so many times. These key value pairs in the context of dictionaries or hashts or any number of other contexts. Key value pairs in HTML are separated by an equal sign with the value typically quoted in this way. Double quotes or single quotes but being consistent. Then notice at the end of this file as per the indentation, there's something symmetrically down here that has the effect of closing the tag or ending the tag. And this effectively tells the browser, "Hey browser, that's it for my HTML." Meanwhile, everything else follows the similar paradigm inside of those two tags. Here is a head tag that says, "Hey browser, here comes the head of my page. Hey browser, that's it for the head of the page. Hey browser, inside of the head, here comes the title, that's it for the title. Well, what is the title? Hello, title." Just as I wrote in my code space. Same story for body. Hey browser, here comes the body of the page. The 95% of the screen, that's it for the body. But what's in the body is exactly that. The indentation is nice and pretty printed. I've used four spaces as we commonly do. Not strictly necessary. In fact, in my own code space, I didn't even bother putting these on three separate lines. I just did one line. That's fine because as we'll see, browsers typically ignore whites space. Uh but I've done it there as we often do just to ensure that things are pretty printed and therefore readable by us humans. Let me call your attention to one other thing on the screen. Up until now, before every lecture, I've been hiding a whole bunch of tabs in my terminal window. But today, I left enabled one that you've probably seen but not cared about before, namely ports. And it's under this ports tab that you can actually see a real incarnation of a TCP port. By default, when you run the command HTTP server, it serves up my current folders content on its own web server, its own HTTP server, but not using the default port 80 or 443 because GitHub is already using those on CS50.dev and their product. But by default, we've chosen another common developer port number 8080, which is interesting only in so far as it's 80 twice, but it's a human convention, but it could have been any number of thousands of other possibilities. But this line here is just telling me that I am some apparently running a server on port 8080. And if I click on there too, I can manually open the same tab. But that's what the green button was doing for me. It was informing me, hey, you've just started a web server on this port. Do you want to open a new tab with the contents thereof? So this is the picture we're now painting. Let me pull back up the code that we just wrote and let me propose that what we've really done is built a tree in the browser's memory. So we kind of have come full circle with week five when we talked about trees and other hierarchical structures. If we assume that the document can be represented with a node that looks a bit like an oval up here that just represents the whole contents of the file. Well, it starts with a single root element by convention, the HTML element. And your page can have only one of those elements. But the HTML tag inside of it can be a head tag and a body tag. And in this case, the head tag, recall, had a title tag as well as the actual text thereof, which was hello title. Meanwhile, the body had just the text thereof as well. And so when I keep saying that the browser is downloading the file, for instance, hello.html, reading it top to bottom, left to right. It's doing literally that, but somehow or other, it's using Maloc or whatever language it's written in to allocate node, node, node, node, node, and populating that tree in your browser's memory or RAM, a data structure quite like that. So, it's all sort of gerine to where we've been before. Before now, we take I think a snack, are there any questions about what we've just seen? anything at all. Shouldn't have prefaced this with the only thing between us is uh these questions and snacks. No. All right, snack time. All right, see you in 10. Snacks. so we are back and pretty much everything we do here on out will look structurally like this. And we're just going to introduce a few more tags and a few more attributes to give you a sense of some of the basic building blocks of most any website out there. And you'll find pretty quickly that it starts to get kind of tedious writing it out. In fact, I will resort to some copy paste today just to kind of speed things up. But this is going to motivate indeed next week when we reintroduce Python as well as SQL to actually auto automate generation of HTML as well. So all of today's websites and many of today's mobile apps are written in HTML. But people are in decreasingly writing this kind of stuff by hand. Rather they are writing code that generates precisely what we're going to learn. So understanding the fundamentals will still be useful so we know what code to write next week and beyond. So let me go back into VS Code here. And what I'm going to go ahead and do is open up another terminal window so that I can leave HTTP server running in this first terminal window. And what I'm going to go ahead and propose that we do is implement a web page that has not just a single line of text, but maybe some paragraphs. So I'm going to call this paragraphs.html. That's going to open up a new tab. And here's where I'm going to save some time. I'm going to go back to hello.html HTML and just highlight all and copy paste this as the beginning of this file. But what I'll start doing is just changing the title of each page to match the file name. So this is going to be my paragraphs example. And instead of saying just hello body, let's actually have a few paragraphs of text. Um I'd rather not waste time writing even full paragraphs of text. So let's actually open up the doc and let's log in and for instance just ask it for a help quick helping hand here. Write three paragraphs about uh computer science. don't really care what the output is. All I want is some dynamically generated text to save me some keystrokes. And here we have an educational answer there, too. Even though all we really care about today is the fact that this is three chunks of text. Hopefully, that's all quite accurate. All right, I'm going to go ahead and highlight all of that. Go back into my paragraphs.html tab. Paste it inside of the body. It's so long, the paragraphs, that the text scrolls. I can at least clean this up slightly. I'm going to go ahead and just indent it twice just so that at least it's pretty printed inside of the body. And now I'm going to go back to my other tab which represents the contents of hello.html. I'm going to click back which is going to show me that same directory listing again which now has a new file paragraphs.html and I'm going to click it so as to see these three paragraphs of text. What looks wrong? Yeah, &gt;&gt; paragraphs. &gt;&gt; There's no paragraphs. It's just one big blob of text. It's the same text, but buried in there is the end of the first paragraph and the start of the next, and same for the third. So, what's going on? Well, appropo of my comment earlier about browsers not really caring about whites space, you can put all the white space you want there. It's just going to ignore it in this particular case. All it's going to give me minimally is a single space between each of these paragraphs of text. So, HTML is very pedantic. Like, if you want there to be more paragraphs, you need to tell the browser, put a paragraph here, put a paragraph there. And the way to do this thankfully isn't all that hard. I'm going to go inside of the body here and I'm going to simply open a tag called open uh P for paragraph for short. Notice that VS Code in this particular case is a little annoying because it's trying to finish my thought, but it doesn't know that I already wrote this text. So, I'm just going to delete what it automatically generated. And then I'm going to manually indent this. And I'm going to do the same thing again for the other paragraphs. Up here, I'm going to open the paragraph tag. I'm going to delete temporarily the close tag so that I can actually put it below that chunk of text here. Indent this and then down here. And this would have been easier if I just did it right the first time. I'm going to do the same thing with the third and final paragraph. So now what we in effect have three times in a row is hey browser here comes a paragraph then the first paragraph. Hey browser that's it for the paragraph. Hey browser here comes a paragraph that's it for the paragraph. Hey browser comes a paragraph. So, three times in total with open, close, open, close, open, close. Now, if I go back to the browser, nothing appears to have changed yet, but that's cuz I'm looking at a copy that was downloaded a moment ago in that virtual envelope. So, this is why, among other reasons, we hit reload on web pages to get the latest version. And voila, now we have three actual paragraphs. Um, the white space is inserted automatically by the browser, but it's at least prettier to the eye now. So, that then is the paragraph tag. So, useful, of course, if we have paragraphs of text. What are some other tags we might introduce? Well, maybe you're writing a paper or a blog post or the like. It's pretty typical to want headings of sections of the page. Maybe chapters and then sections and then subsections or the like. HTML can help with this too. So, let me go into my terminal window again, create a file called how about uh let's call it headings.html. And then in this file, let me similarly go back to hello.html, copy paste it into headings. I'm going to close paragraphs because we're done with that. And I'm just going to change the title now to headings. And inside of the body here, what I'm going to go ahead and do is uh you know, it would have been nice to have some of that same text. Let's let me go back one step. Let me grab the paragraphs and paste that into this new file. Let me rename it to headings to make clear which file we're in. And now let me go ahead and propose that wouldn't it be nice if I made clear that this is the first paragraph. So I'm going to use the H1 tag, which is the heading one tag. And I'm just going to say one for the sake of discussion. And down here, I'm going to say H2 and say two for the sake of discussion. And down here, H3 3 because I don't really care what these things are called. Just want to demonstrate the functionality. If I go back to my other tab now, back to the directory listing, there's my brand new file headings.html. And it's the same paragraphs, but now you have some big bold text that looks reminiscent of the chapter heading, the section heading, the subsection heading, and the like. Or that you might see on a news site or a blog site or the like. So you've got H1 through H6 from biggest and boldest to uh smaller but still bold. And the browser decides on all of those settings for us. But it also makes some semantic clarity to me that probably the most important thing on the page at least to begin with is that H1 tag and then everything else is like supporting paragraphs or arguments or whatever the case might be. There's a hierarchy implicit there. All right. What are some other things we can do with web pages? Well, let me open my terminal window again and why don't we code up how about a list of values cuz lists are everywhere on the internet. So, let me open up list.html and then close my terminal. Uh, I'll go ahead and start with that same file, headings.html, paste it into list, change the name here. Let's delete everything I did. And again, the only reason I'm copying and pasting is just to avoid writing out the same boilerplate code again and again with the HTML tag, head tag, body tag, and so forth. Let's focus on the new stuff. The new stuff in this example will be a list of values like the words fu, bar, and baz, which much like a mathematician might go with xyz as placeholders, computer scientists would typically reach for words like fu, bar, and baz when nonsensical placeholders. And this looks like a list of three values, one after the other. Of course, if I go back into my directory index, click on list, how many list items am I going to see per line? Yeah. Well, it's going to be just one big blob of text here, too. It doesn't matter if it looks like a list. It is just going to be text after text after text separated by a single space, not the multiple lines I had. So, here too, we've got to be pretty pedantic. If I want a list of values, I need to use a tag that conveys that. And the tag I'll use first is going to be ul for unordered list, which gives me a bulleted list. And then inside of this unordered list, I claim we're going to have a whole bunch of list items or li for short. uh like fu, like bar, like baz or any other things that you want to put in your list. If I now go back to my other tab, reload, now you get the familiar bulleted lists that you might see in any number of websites, Google Docs or the like. How does Google Docs do it underneath the hood? Well, they're just using a UL tag and some LI tags inside of that to give you the bulleted list that's just happening automatically when you click the appropriate button in something like Google Docs, which at the end of the day is just a website. Well, what if I want to number these things? Well, if I go back to VS Code, I could certainly just start numbering them like 1 2 3, which is fine, but honestly, like computers can count and with loops pretty quickly. Also, it's a little annoying. If I want to go back in later and insert something between some of those elements, I then have to reumber everything manually. I mean, this is one of the things computers are good at. So, take a guess. If I want not an unordered list, but an ordered list that is numbered, what might you change? Yes, O is a good bet. Let's change both the open tag and the close tag. Let me go back to this uh my second tab. Reload. And now we have it. Uh one, two, and three. And you can actually use a whole table of contents. You can use uh sub bullets or subning. Anything you can do in like a table of contents, HTML can do for you automatically here. Well, what about tabular data? Laying out data in kind of rows and columns. Well, we can do that, too. Let me go ahead and open up a new file. Uh how about table.html. HTML. Let me go ahead then in this file, copy paste as before, just so I have some boilerplate. Let's get rid of everything in the body. And then let's just manually whip up a little table like this. Open bracket table. Inside of the table tags, I'm going to have a TR tag for table row. Inside of this table row, I'm going to have a table data tag, which is going to have the number one. I'm going to give myself another two, another three. Outside of the table row, I'm gonna have another table row. And I'm gonna create maybe four. And now I'm going to do five. And now I'm gonna do six. And you can perhaps see where this is going. After this, I'm going to do one more table row. How about a little tediously? Seven. How about eight? How about nine? And then lastly, just to make it look a little familiar, final table row. How about with a TD of an asterisk? And then how about a zero? And lastly, how about a pound symbol? Maybe. Any guesses as to what we're making in HTML here? Like a telephone keypad. Yeah. So, let's go back over to Let me close the old file. Back over to the browser. Click back. There's my new file, table.html. And it's not going to be very pretty, but I dare say that's exactly what you see when you pull up the phone app and you start dialing a number. It's sort of a numeric keypad laid out automatically for me in rows and columns. Now, this one's a little underwhelming. Let me open up a file that I made in advance of class today. Um, in my favorites uh file here, I'm going to go ahead and copy a pre-made example. I'm going to open up this file called favorites0.html. And what you'll see here is a slightly more complicated table, still with a table tag, but this time with a t head tag for table head and then a tbody tag inside of which are all of those rows. And I know this just by having read the documentation. And then notice this. Inside of the first TR in the T head, there are three TH's, table headings, timestamp, language, and problem, which might sound a little familiar when we last collected data from everyone via that Google form. Well, let's go ahead and spoil what this is. Let me go back to the directory index. There is this pre-made file, favorites.html, and arguably a more compelling use of a table. Now, we have an HTML table containing all of the form submissions that you all clicked in with the other day when we were asking you your favorite language and your favorite problem. It's not super pretty, but indeed it's in rows and columns. And so, it's reminiscent of the HTML that Google is using in the actual Google Sheets software to lay out a sheet of data for you in those same rows and columns. All right. Well, let's do something that's a little more visually interesting. Let me go back to VS Code here. uh close out those first uh those last two. And how about let's do something with images? Well, I brought again uh inside of today's code. Uh how about our same bridge that we keep opening up in class? And this is the week's bridge. Looks a little something Whoops. Uh looks a little something like this. Here though is just the raw image. How could I include an image in a web page that I serve up on the internet? Well, let's go ahead and try this. Let me close the ping itself. Let me copy this and create a new file called how about image.html. Hide my terminal. Copy paste that. Just quickly change the title to image so we know where we are. And inside of the body of this page, let's go and embed that image so that we can include not just the image, but if we want paragraphs of text around it, headings as well. Heck, maybe a table, any other features that we've seen already. I'm going to say img, which is image for short. Source src for short equals quote unquote bridge.png. And then I'm going to close the tag here. Now I'm going to go back to my other tab. Go back into my directory index. Here's my brand new file, image.html. And this too isn't going to look all that different from the actual image because I have no other content. But when I click on this, you'll see that there is the full screen image. And it's even a little too big to fit in my viewport in the body of the page. But we can fix something like that later. I've embedded in this website precisely that image. But I should do a little bit better here. In fact, if the image is slow to load or if someone uh is visually impaired and doesn't know what they're looking at, it would be nice to have some alternative text that something like screen reader software could recite. So, there's another attribute for this tag specifically called alt for alternative. And I can put something like Harvard University to at least give the user a textual description of what kind of photo they're looking at. You'll also see that text if indeed the image is slow to load or if it's broken, like missing altogether, you won't see 404. you'll see like a broken image icon, but at least with some explanatory text as to what the developer intended you to see at that point. It's not going to change at all if I reload here by going back to image.html, but again, a screen reader or an astute viewer would see that ultimately in the browser. But there's something different, and this isn't a mistake for once. What have I done differently, but apparently not wrong? I claim something new or noteworthy about this particular image tag. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. There's no like close tag. There's no like open bracket/ img which is the pattern we followed for every other tag like closing the HTML tag, the head tag, the body tag and so forth. I just don't see any end tag here. And it's just not necessary. Turns out there are certain HTML tags that can be empty elements, which is to say doesn't make semantic sense to start and end an image. Like it's either there or it's not. And so some tags just don't require an end tag if it's sort of obvious to the browser that the image should go there. So image is one such of those tags. And then I noticed um I'm missing the lang here, which isn't strictly necessary because I've got no textual content, but just for consistency, let me go back and put that in as before. Um, meanwhile, um, the image is exactly as it would appear in the screen, but it doesn't have to be just an image we embed. We can do something with like video. So, let me go ahead and open up a file called video.html. Let me copy paste some of that starter code. Change this to video. And instead of the image tag, as you might imagine, there's also a video tag. It's a little more involved, but per the documentation, I know I can do this video. And then inside of the video tag, I can actually have multiple sources just in case the browser might want different versions or different resolutions, sort of qualities thereof. And this somewhat confusingly is an actual tag called source, not shortened, but stupidly this tag has an attribute called source, which is shortened that equals the name of the file you want to embed. And I came with today's examples, a video file called video.mpp4, which is a small video that you can embed. And I can tell the browser what type of video it is to be clear. And the convention here or content type is to say the type of this video is an MPEG 4 video. There are other features though for the video tag. In fact, in when you see a video on a page, you can very often see like a play icon, a pause icon, maybe some other controls. Well, it turns out you can put an HTML attribute on the video tag literally called controls that will enable those. If you don't turn them on, there's no way to like start and stop the video and or see rather those controls visually. This way, the user actually sees them. But this attribute is a little bit different from others. It doesn't actually need a value. It just has to be present and the browser will know when it sees the word controls, oh, I should turn on the controls feature. And for good measure, especially in today's world of advertisements everywhere, if you want the video to play automatically potentially, uh, or at least not annoy the user, you might want to mute it by default as well. So another attribute per the documentation for the video tag is that you can start the video muted as well. And only when the user clicks on it might you actually start to hear something. But of course these are fairly basic examples of media inside of pages. Let's actually do what the uh H is meant to imply in HTML. The hypertext the ability to link from one page to another. That is a feature we haven't yet seen. So let me go ahead and do this. And let me just for completeness, let me go back into hello.html because I completely forgot the language attribute, even though that's really just there for SEO, search engine optimization, or for tools like Google Translate or the like that know therefore what language they're translating from. Um, let me go into my terminal window here and let's create another file called link.html, which demonstrates exactly that, the ability to link from one web page to another. Uh let's go ahead here and change the title to link so I know where I am. And in the body of this page, let's go ahead and create what's called a hyper reference or hyperlink. Uh I'll encourage people in this page to visit the actual Harvard website. So let's do visit. How about uh Harvard period just to demonstrate where we're beginning. If I go back into this directory index, click on link.html. This, of course, is not yet a link, so I should probably make it one. Well, instead of just saying visit Harvard, maybe I should say harvard.edu. Go back to the other tab. Reload. And it's harvard.edu, but I can click and highlight it, but it's not clickable. It's not underlined like a link. All right. Well, maybe I need to do like www.harboard.edu. Reload. Still nothing happening. All right. Well, maybe I need the full URL in the scheme. https and maybe the slash at the end. Reload again and nothing's happening. So here too, HTML is pedantic. Like it will not create a link for you unless you tell it to create a link. And the fact that when you post on social media nowadays or in Google Docs, things are automatically hyperl for you, like that's a feature implemented in code. Very often, Python or JavaScript or something else where some human wrote code that looks for patterns in the uh input you've typed in and if it looks like you've typed a URL, it will automatically link it for you. But what are those websites doing for you automatically? Well, they're doing this. If you want to have a tag, a link here to Harvard's website, you use open bracket a for anchor, href for hyper reference. Set that equal to the URL to which you want to link. Close the tag and then in between the open tag and the closed tag, put the actual word you want to link to. So now if I go back to this page and reload, now I have what looked like my original attempt, just visit Harvard, but it's a hyperlink. And this is super subtle, but if I hover over that underlined word, which is blue by default, you'll actually see in the browser's bottom lefthand corner where you're going to be whisked away to, even though that's all too subtle, but this now looks like I intended, an actual hyperlink to Harvard. In fact, I could link it to the full URL, but it would be a little redundant. And even though this looks like uh you shouldn't have to do this, this is indeed how HTML works. The href attribute is where you're going to go. The text inside of the open and close tag is what the user will see. So if you want them to see the full URL, you got to put it there. And now I can see the full URL to where I'm being led. But here's where you can actually introduce discussions of like cyber security. How could this feature be abused? Might you think? This stupid simple feature. Yeah. have it display something but actually &gt;&gt; yeah you could have it display one thing but lead to somewhere else and it wouldn't be that hard for the adversary who's maybe tricked you into visiting their web page to say you're actually going to go to yale.edu edu instead of Harvard. But if I reload the page, it doesn't look any different. Unless the viewer is astute enough to look at this tiny little text in the bottom of the screen or just click on the link and be whisked away to the wrong destination. That can be problematic. Like this is a nice haha sort of prank. But you could certainly imagine doing this with like paypal.com addresses or any number of banks or anything where you're trying to collect personal information from someone. And if the resulting website looks quite like the one you're actually creating, uh, it looks quite like the website they're expecting, but it's actually your copy thereof, it's all too easy to wage what are called fishing attacks. P H I S H I N G, which means to lead someone to what looks like the real site, but is not. Typically, to get their username, their password, their credit card information, or something else. But it boils down to just these basic building blocks like this. questions then on any of these building blocks that we've seen thus far. Yeah. &gt;&gt; I think I might have gone lost in the earlier portion. &gt;&gt; How did you um like get get it to open up? Like did you run the file in &gt;&gt; Oh, good question. How did I get it to open up? So, let me rewind. So, the very first thing we did after creating hello.html HTML was open a terminal window and specifically I ran a command which was HTTP server http-server which starts my own web server in my code space but not on the default port 80 and443 because that's what cs50.dev is already using instead it chose by our design 8080 which is commonly used by developers when making websites. Then I just kind of hid my terminal because it's not interesting to see constantly then. But that web server is still running in my code space. And anytime I'm saying let's go back to this tab, I am now visiting a different URL that was the result of my clicking on that green button which led me to my own website. If you ever get lost or close that tab by accident, no big deal. If you go to the ports tab of your terminal, you can actually hover over this and click on that same URL and open up the contents of your own site instead. &gt;&gt; Fluffy meme. Yes, these are randomly generated names by GitHub, which is the company that hosts VS Code in this way. And they do this to ensure uniqueness without it being some arcane sequence of random letters and numbers. They concatenate random English words together. A good question. All right. So, what else can we do here? Well, let me propose that there's a bit more you can do with even these URLs. Here, of course, is the scheme and the host name and the domain and the TLD. But after the URL, things can get a little more interesting than just folder names and file names. In fact, it's quite common to see URLs that have somewhere in them a question mark and then a bunch of other key