I can go down to uh how about uh let's say success.html. So let me open up success.html. It just says you are registered. I can do something like this. Um a href equals /registrance. So I have control now over my HTML and the routes. So slregistrance will exist. Uh see who else registered. Period. So, this will create a nice little HTML link that links me to that route. So, let's try this. So, let's go back to the form over here. Uh, let's go ahead and register John for ultimate frisbee and register. All right. And now we see you are registered. See who else registered. And if I hover over this, it's super small, but it would have showed me in the bottom left corner at the link. And indeed, here now is John at the bottom of this table. And just to be clear, if I view page source on the browser, you see all of the TRS that we dynamically generated on the server side before they were sent as such to the browser. All right. What if we wanted to do something slightly more elegant here? Well, I don't have to just use this HTML hack like why don't I just show the user who has registered automatically. And this is kind of a cool feature of web apps as well. In addition to importing flask render template and request, I'm going to also import a function called redirect that comes with flask. And indeed, rather than just show success.html, I'm going to go ahead and return the result of redirecting the user to /registrance. So to be clear, I'm in my register route, and instead of showing them the success page anymore, which I might as well delete at this point, just going to redirect them to this list of everyone who is registered, including themselves. So, if I go back over here and type in someone like Doug, who maybe will play basketball with me, and click register, watch what happens to the URL at the very top of the screen, I'm automatically whisked away to registrance in this case. Um, I made a change to the code though, and so the server actually was smart enough to reload. So, Doug is now uh the only one in the database. And this actually hints at a problem we should really solve. Like, in fact, let's do this real fast. Let me go ahead and register myself again for basketball. Register. Now, it's Doug and David. The catch though is if this server ever goes offline, maybe because it needs to be updated or it crashes or it reboots, when you hit control C and get back to your terminal, Flask server is no longer running, which means that global variable called C registrance in all caps is gone. It's like free. The memory has been freed. So, if I were to rerun Flask now, as would happen automatically if the server itself rebooted, well, this is not great because if I go back to the registrance page and click reload, no one has registered. And in fact, that's what happened with Doug a moment ago because I changed my actual app.py, Flask was smart enough to realize, oh wait, the code has changed. I better reload the program, which gave me a brand new version of that global dictionary. So what would be better clearly than storing registrants in memory in RAM in a variable in the server? Yeah. Yeah. So in an actual database and so here's two where everything kind of comes full circle and connects again. So let me go back into uh app.py here. And I like generally the logic of what I've done. I don't like the fact that I'm just storing my registrance inside of this global variable, which is again just in the computer's volatile memory. Let's actually put this in a database instead. So, let me go up here and get rid of this global dictionary and let me do something a little smarter up here. Let me import from CS50's own library the SQL function that we've used before. And again, even though we've been taking off all almost all of CS50's training wheels, the reality is using CS50's SQL library, even through final projects, just makes using SQL in Python so much easier. But there's certainly thirdparty libraries you can use. Um, let me go down now and in addition to creating my app, let's create a database, DB for short, setting that equal to SQLite, and then SQLite SL, which is not a typo. And let's assume that the database shall be called frost imdb. More on that in a moment. And then down here, now that I have a database variable, let's not remember the student by storing them in this dictionary. Let's actually execute a line of SQL. So, db.execute insert into Well, wait a minute. What am I going to insert them into? Not to worry. I came prepared for this. So, let me go ahead and maximize my terminal window and then run SQLite 3 of a file called frost imdb. And this is a file I made in advance, but it's super simple. In fact, if I type dot schema just to see the design of this database, you'll see that in advance I created a table in this database called registrance. It has a column called ID, a column called name, and a column called sport. And the primary key of this table is to use the ID value which is just an integer. And now notice I have some constraints here. I want the user to give me a name and a sport. So I've specified that it's not just text, it's not null. That is null values should not be possible to put in here. All right. So, let me go ahead and exit out of SQLite 3. Let me go back into uh my code editor here. And now I know what to insert into. Insert into the table called registrance. What? Well, I want to insert how about a name of the student and the sport for which they registered. And the values therefore that I want to insert are going to be whatever they came from the post request. Here's where you do not want to make yourself vulnerable to SQL injection attacks. No fst strings in here. you know, just plugging the students input in blindly. This is where and why we use these placeholders in both CS50's library and in many libraries uh in the real world to specify that I want the library to properly sanitize the user's input and get rid of any scary characters like apostrophes or semicolons or the like. So, I'm going to pass in name and sport. And this one line has the effect of, as you recommended, storing the registration in an actual database on the server, not just in volatile temporary memory. But we do have to change one thing. This line here is no longer valid because there's no global variable there via which we can get all of the registrants. But that's no big deal. Here's how most web apps would do this. I'm going to define a variable called registrance and set it equal to DB execute of select star from registrance. It's as easy as that to just get all of the registrants from my database. And down here, there's no longer an all capitalized variable, but there is a lowercase one registrance. So, to be clear, in my register route, I am inserting the user into the database. And in my registrance route, I am selecting the users from the database. And then the rest of the code, I think, can stay the same. So, let's go back to fro's here. Go back to the form. Let's register David for basketball register. Ah, I did screw up. You're seeing some weirdness here. What are you actually seeing? There's one user registered. Not intentional. But what does this syntax suggest? We're looking at this is a dictionary. Recall that the db.execute method that comes with CS50 SQL library gives you a list of dictionary objects. And so because there's only one registrant at the moment, you're seeing my dictionary for my registration, which is not what I want to show here. And I forgot. I need to also go back into the registrance uh template to tweak my syntax as follows. Let me go back into VS Code here. Let me go into registrance.html. And because I am passing in now not a dictionary but a list of dictionaries, I just need to think about the problem a little bit differently. So my syntax here is going to be for each uh let's do this as follows. For each registrant in that registrance list of dictionaries, go ahead and display the current registrance name and go ahead and display the current registrance sport. In other words, I'm using Python syntax which works as well in Ginga here. This iterates over the list of registrants each of which is a dictionary. So I'm using dictionary syntax now to index into the name key of the registrant dict uh object and the sport key of the same. So now let me go back to my browser and I'm just going to go ahead and reload the registrance page without resubmitting the form. Now there it is. David and basketball. And now let's go back to the form and register a couple more people. Kelly for soccer register. Notice we're at the registrance link. Kelly is indeed still registered. Let me go back to this and let's register John. Ultimate Frisbee register. Let's go ahead and kill the Flask server by going to my first terminal window. Uh, control C. And now let me go ahead and rerun Flask, which was bad before. That's how Doug ended up the only registrant last time. But this time if I go back to the registrance page and immediately click reload, even though the server is running a new in memory, the database is persistent, which was the whole point of using SQL from week uh seven onward. And let's do one more for good measure. If I go back to the form, we'll register Doug so he can play basketball with me, too. And we even have Doug now in the database. It's an ugly looking table, but the data is in fact all there. All right, questions now on this improvement which is getting closer and closer to what the actual Frostim's database did uh website did so many years ago. All right. Well, let me propose this now. We have this table of registrants. Suppose that um maybe uh Kelly was not a very sportsman like when she played soccer last time. So, we want to dregister Kelly from soccer. That is nope. we're going to reject your registration. Let's think for a moment about the design here. Like, here's an HTML table containing names and sports. And wouldn't it be nice if we could add a button that would let me dregister Kelly or anyone for that matter? When I click on that button, what information should ideally be sent from the browser to the server to remove someone like Kelly from the database? &gt;&gt; ID. &gt;&gt; Yeah. The ID of the person. And you're proposing ID instead of name. Why? the ID uniquely identifies in that SQL table. &gt;&gt; Exactly. The ID uniquely identifies the user in the SQL table. So, in fact, let's see this real quick. If I go back to VS Code and we'll revisit essentially a week seven issue here. Let me go back into my second terminal where I can again run SQLite 3 after maximizing my terminal. And before I just wrote schema to see what the table is. Now I'm going to literally run select star from registrance in SQLite 3 and we'll see a little askar table of all four of us who registered but we also see the unique ID and the value of the unique ID recall from week seven is that it's the so-called primary key. It is the value that uniquely identifies users as minimally as possible and that's a good thing because if we have another Kelly registering for frost IM's we don't want to dregister the wrong Kelly or both Kelly's we want only the Kelly with ID of two. So somehow the button we add to the registrance page should contain in it the ID of the person we want to delete. Because if you do pass the ID of the person that you want to delete to the server, the server can do some kind of select looking or some kind of delete statement using that ID number and delete just that row. So there's a few ways we can do this, but let me propose that we proceed as follows. in our registrance route, which is where we can currently see all of these users. Let's go ahead and output an ugly but functional form for each of those users. So, let me go ahead and uh minimize this and hide my terminal window. And in registrance, let's go ahead and just do this. In addition to outputting every registrance name and sport, let's also output a third column whose purpose in life is to contain an HTML form. The action of that form will be a route like dregister and the method we're going to use is going to be post just so that we don't accidentally store uh personally identifying information in a URL or such. This form is going to have a button the type of which is submit and the button is going to say dregister. And I could now implement the ID in a couple of ways. I could do input name equals ID, type equals text. And now if I go back to my other browser tab and reload, I should see a button for every one of these registrants. And I do. But this is kind of like the honor system where I just let the user type in the ID of who they want to delete. And it's sort of weird that I have multiple forms in that case. But here is where dynamically generating HTML can get pretty uh useful. Let's change the type of this input to hidden and set the value of this uh input to be whatever the current registrance ID actually is. Uh storing this in here and let's go ahead and not confuse this. So we'll use single quotes on the outside instead. So inside of this value I'm putting the current user's ID. So, if I go back now, notice that the text boxes are going to disappear, but the buttons will not. But all of that information is still there. If I right click or control-click and open up my developer, uh, let's open up view page source because it's just a bit bigger. Notice that David and Kelly and John and everyone else here has the same HTML as before, plus another column containing a form that contains a I somehow messed up still. Why is this blank? So, this is still not good. Ah, thank you. I accidentally pluralized this, but it should be registrant because I'm inside of this for loop and each iteration gives me a variable called registrance. So, user error on my part. So, let's go ahead and dramatically do this again. Let me view page source of the same page. Scroll down a bit. Thankfully, there is now for every one of these registrants a hidden ID for one for me, two for Kelly, and I bet if we keep scrolling, we'll see three for John, and four for Doug. So, now this form has enough information, even though there's no user input other than the clicking of the button to tell the server whom to delete. So, how do we delete the user from that particular registration table? Well, I think we just need to add a route. So, let me go back into VS Code here into app.py and let's go ahead and create another route for instance uh in here say uh we'll put it up here below uh up here below index. So, app.root quote unquote slash dregister whoops dregister and now defregister but I could call it anything I want. And how do I do this? Well, let's first get the ID from the form. ID equals requestform.get get quote unquote ID. Let's do a bit of a sanity check here. So if there is an ID and it's not blank for some reason, go ahead and do DB.execute delete from registrance where ID equals uh question mark. And now let's pass in the user's actual ID. And then no matter what, let's go ahead and redirect the user back to the registrance page so that we can hopefully see the result of that change. So again, I'm just using a bit of SQL per week 7. I'm using a placeholder by using the question mark, passing in the actual ID from the form. And I'm only doing this if there is an ID that was passed in. And I'm letting the database actually do the deletion. All right, so let's try to do this. Let's go back to the browser here. Reload the /registance page for good measure. Let's decree that Kelly is now dregistered by clicking this button. And oh, so close. method not allowed at the dregister route. What did I do wrong? Let me go back to the code. What's wrong with my dregister route? Well, what method is the form using? If I go back to registrance.html, the meth the form is using post. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So, I need to override the default, which is get. So, I need to go up here again and just change an argument to be methods equals and then in a list containing only post now instead of get. All right, let's go back to the form and go back. And now let's try to dregister Kelly. She's gone. Let's get rid of me now. I'm gone. And indeed, if I go back to VS Code, open my terminal, maximize it, and select star from registrance again, you'll see that the two of us are indeed gone in this case. questions now on this technique because now we have most of the plumbing in place for adding people to a database, deleting people from a database. It's very similar in spirit now to most any website that has this kind of interactivity. All right, subtle question. I deliberately in my registrance.html file uh used post as we just discovered instead of get. Why though? because it wasn't that strong an argument that I hinted at earlier of like, well, I don't want like Kelly's ID to end up in my URL bar or mine. Like IDs are not really personally identifiable. They're just opaque integers at the moment. But why would it be bad if you could delete people by using the get method? So this is kind of subtle but the catch with using get is that by definition you can visit that resource that route by just typing in a URL or following a hyperlink. So for instance if an adversary were to type a URL like /registrance question mark id equals oh I don't know uh four and then send me this URL in an email or send this URL in an email to the proctor who's running the frostam's program. If that proctor simply clicks naively on this link as my code is implemented now and I've used get instead of post, what's going to happen? &gt;&gt; Doug gets dregistered just because the proctor followed a link in their email. And this is hinting at the kinds of fishing attacks that are possible too. Bad design like generally when you are using get requests that is just simple URLs that are clickable or typable. They should not have the effect of changing data on the server. Post is much better if only because you can't just click a link and post happens. To induce a post request, you almost always have to click a button. So, at least this case, the proctor would receive an email. They would have to receive an email, click on a link, and then they would see a web page like this that clearly has a button labeled dregister or the like, which is an additional layer of protection. And there's even more attacks that you can wage by supporting get. So in general, post requests are preferred anytime there's anything remotely personally identifiable or remotely destructive like actually changing data on the database like this. All right. Well, what more can or should we do with fro perhaps? Well, let's see. Maybe one or so final flourishes here. Um, if I want to go ahead and maybe make those error messages a little more interesting. Let's do that for just a second. Let me go back to uh my uh other browser tab here. Let's go back to the registration page where the form is and let's deliberately not cooperate and just click register so that I get an error about missing name. Well, wouldn't it be nice if we made this a little more user friendly by including like an image on the page as is commonly the case? Well, we can certainly include images in websites using the image tag, but the catch is we actually have to be a little more clever about how we store the image on the server in order for this to work. So for instance, let me go into that error page. We don't need success open anymore and we don't need layout anymore or this index anymore. Let's focus on error. And suppose that I did want to include an an error message containing like a a grumpy cat on the screen. Well, ideally I would just do alt or I would do open bracket image uh source equals and then something like cat.jpeg where cat.jpeg is the name of a cat in this current folder. And just to be clear, let's have an alternative text of grumpy cat for screen readers or slow connections. Okay, this unfortunately is not going to work. Let's go over here and induce the same error by just reloading and submitting the same form. And you'll see indeed a broken image because that image that cat.jpeg does not exist, but we do at least see the alternative text. Well, I did come prepared with a cat already. And so, let me go ahead and grab this cat from another folder. And this cat is going to contain uh is going to exist in a file called cat.jpeg. And indeed, if I type ls now after having grabbed a copy of that cat, it exists alongside app.py. Seems good. Let's go back to the browser here. Let's reload. And we should see ah still no cat. Well, why is this? Well, this is a side effect of using the framework as well. It turns out for organizational sake, any images you want to display on a page or any CSS files or JavaScript files that you want to embed in a page, if they're static assets, should actually be in a folder called static. And by static, that just means unchanging. You or someone else wrote them once and they're not dynamic in the way that app.py is. So, I'm actually going to use my mv command and move cat.jpeg into the static folder. Indeed, if I type ls now, cat is gone, but it is in the static folder. And now if I go back over here, I think we'll be good except that I do need to go into error.html and say that the source of this image is actually in /static/cat.jpeg to make clear it's in that folder. And so indeed when I now reload the page once more now I see a very grumpy cat at least guiding my error message. A but there is a difference here. Even though when accessing the static directory I have to be explicit. Notice that this whole time we have never once mentioned the templates directory. The render template function to be clear knows automatically to look in the templates folder for your template. You do not and you should not say something like templates here. You simply specify the name of the file. But in the in the uh HTML template, you do actually have to include as I did /static in the HTML. All right, let's do one final flourish with the actual code. Suppose that it's time to modernize and let people register not just for one sport as per the radio buttons, but multiple sports. It's a little obnoxious to make me go back and fill out my name again and again and again if I want to register once, twice, three times for sports. So, why don't we uh go ahead and in terms of UI change those radio buttons to checkboxes? That's a very easy fix. Let me go into uh my templates folder and into index.html HTML where this form is. And if I want to change radio buttons to checkboxes, literally just change radio to checkbox. If I go back to the browser here and reload, you'll see the familiar checkboxes now, which are not mutually exclusive. It lets me check multiple ones, thereby registering for multiple sports at once. But my logic has to change a tiny little bit here whereby if I want to go ahead and get all of the sports for which the user is registered, well, that logic has to change in app.py. So where is my register route? Down here. And we haven't touched this in a while, but recall that the register route here has uh a validate name chunk of code, validate sport chunk of code, and we most recently did the insert into chunk of code as well. But if the user is registering for multiple sports, I'm okay with having one row per sport, even though I'm sure we could do better than that. But how do I iterate over all of the sports that the user gave me? Well, I need to change my validation code here a little bit. If you know the user can select multiple values as with checkboxes, you're going to use request.form.getlist and then the name of the uh parameter that you want to get the value of. And then this is going to give me back a list of values. So I'm going to go ahead and change semantically my code to say sports because I'm expecting zero or more sports now instead of one. So if there are no sports, we're going to just say missing sport. Heck, missing sports. Um but then I can't simply do this. I can't just say is the sport for which the user registered in that array or not because they might have given me two sports or three. So logically I should really check all of the sports that the human typed in for me and I should probably do something like this instead. So for each uh sport in the sports that the user typed in, go ahead and uh ask the question if that sport is not in sports, then go ahead and output invalid sport. So it's just a bit of tedium here. We're just adding a bit of logic, but this way I'm iterating over every check box that the user checked and making sure they didn't do what Kelly did earlier and sort of make up her own sport and submit that to me among all of the others. But this now should let me. Let's try. Let's reload. Oh, and then actually one other line here. We also need to do it down here. Uh, for each sport in sports, we better execute that line of code multiple times. So, let's see what happens. Let's go ahead and register David for actually let's see what who's in the database still. So registrance. So we've got John and Doug. No David or Kelly. So let's reregister David for basketball and soccer. Click register. And now I'm indeed registered for both. And I observe that it's kind of bad design that I'm just inserting myself twice into the database. So let me go ahead and open up the Frostims database one last time. Uh let me do a select uh let me do a select star from registrance. You'll see too that David and David are both there. What would be a better design here to get rid of the redundancy and to know that I'm the same person ideally? &gt;&gt; Yeah. I should probably have an ID for the the person as well. So this is going to complicate it more than we want to play with today. Instead of just a registrance table, I should probably have like a students table that has an ID for every student and the name of every student and then change this table as we've seen with the IMDb database and others. I should really be storing the IDs of the students, the Harvard IDs if you will, and not just their names like this. So, there's room for improvement, but the point here is just how we can actually use checkboxes and get back multiple items from folks. that was a lot. Questions on where we're now at. All right, to make the coding a little less tedious, what we're going to do is look at a few final examples that have sort of come pre-made, and we'll walk through the code, pointing out only what's different as opposed to some of the boilerplate that we keep seeing. Um, where we left off now, recall, is that we have app.py, which is all of our logic, requirements.ext, text which just enumerates the libraries that we want to use in the project. Static which now contains any static files like cats or JavaScript or CSS and templates which contains our actual templates. It's worth noting that we're actually following a fairly common paradigm. This is not specific to Flask. The model that we've essentially the the paradigm that we've essentially been implementing is this. If this uh shape over here represents the human or the user, they keep interacting with what the world generally calls a view. A view is the term of art that just describes like the user interface. aka view. But that view is generated by a certain type of code, namely controller logic. So app.py is technically what the world would call controller logic or business logic uh to use an industry term. And that controller code, aka app.py, is generating one or more views. So the views that we're referring to here is like everything in your templates. Those are your views. But there's a third piece of the puzzle that we just introduced which is generally called a model. And initially my model was just a stupidly simple uh dictionary in memory and that evolved eventually into frostams.db. So your model is generally your persistent data like where you're storing data related to the application. And even though the picture doesn't lend itself to pronouncing it in the right order this is what's known as the MVC paradigm model view controller. And it's a very common way of developing web apps by just thinking about the different problems you need to solve with this kind of nomenclature. Like I've got to implement my controller which does all of the logic, all of the variables, functions, conditionals, loops, and so forth. I've got to implement the view which contains everything the user sees and interacts with like the HTML. And I've got to eventually implement the model which is like all of the backend data space and such. The catch though is that this is not a clean line because clearly in views we've seen variables, we've seen loops, we've seen conditionals. So this is just a general mindset to have and in the real world if you ever uh explore web apps again you are henceforth familiar with what's known as this MVC model. But now let's solve some other real world problem. So here's what you see on the occasion that you sign into something like Gmail or really any other website that asks for a username and then eventually a password or some such thing. This is just a web form. It looks a lot prettier than mine because they're using some fancy CSS to make things blue and nicely indented and so forth, but it's just HTML underneath the hood with probably an input type equals text to give me this text box. Of course, when you log into Gmail after providing your password, somehow Gmail remembers often for days, weeks even that you have logged in already. Now, how is that actually working? Well, when you first log into a site like Gmail and click submit or the next button in this case, presumably the browser is submitting in a virtual envelope, so to speak, a message like this to Google's servers. Post slash something to accounts.google.com, which happens to be the URL that Google uh typically uses for this. And inside of this, the dot dot dot is your username and password and anything else that might be submitted to the server. Ideally, the server responds to you with 200. Okay, like here is your inbox. Okay, you logged in successfully, but it also underneath the hood, every time you've been logging into Gmail, has been planting a cookie on your computer. And you might be generally familiar with cookies. They have kind of a bad rap because they're often used and are used quite frequently for tracking, for advertising, um, and really kind of keeping eyes on you in some way. But in their basic form, they're just a feature of HTTP, which is wonderfully useful because it solves some typical problems. Uh this is another HTTP header that is usually inside of those virtual envelopes that come back from servers to browsers. In addition to telling the browser what the type of content is in the envelope, it might tell the browser, please set the following cookie. A cookie is just a key value pair. It might be something like session literally equals some value. And that value is usually a random string that might be 1 2 3 4 5 6 or something like that, but it's a unique identifier. Or naively, if Google implemented cookies poorly, they could technically tell your browser to store a cookie on your computer containing your username and a password. Why? So that tomorrow when you open up Gmail, you're not prompted again with the stupid form to log in. It already knows your browser that you're logged in. And your browser can do that by just sending the same cookie it got yesterday to the server. Now, this is bad to use cookies to store usernames and passwords generally because it's putting very precious data in the browser's memory and any sibling or roommate who walks over to your browser can now find your username and password by just poking around your cookies. So generally what browsers do is more like this screenshot here whereby all the server does is it puts a big random value on your computer somewhere essentially a text file containing a big random value and that is equivalent essentially to sort of a handstamp like if you go into a bar or a club or an amusement park generally you show your ticket once when you go in and then thereafter you just show your hand if you want to be able to come and go again and again. So right now my hand has not yet been stamped. We uh have this nice here smiley face sticker. I might have a smiley face now on my hand anytime I want to go back into the bar or club or amusement park because they now know, oh, we already checked who you are, presumably the very first time that you came in. That's all cookies are effectively doing is it's putting a virtual handstamp in your browser because the browser the next time you go to Gmail and click on a link or click on an email. Your browser unbeknownst to you will send a get request that looks like this but also contains a line like cookie colon and then that same key value pair. It's like presenting your handstamp again and again every time you open an email or click on a link in Gmail. This cookie header is what the browser sends. This set cookie header is what the server sends. So this is the act of stamping your hand. This is the act of presenting your hand. And that effectively is how browsers and servers remember who you are. This is how advertisers generally remember who you are because at one point or other they put a cookie on your computer and unbeknownst to you, you're going to this website, this website, this website and your browser has been presenting this handstamp all this time so advertisers know, oh that's David again, that's David again. And that's David again because they're seeing the h same handstamp. And so one of the reasons why last week for instance I kept opening things in incognito mode which you might use generally if you want to do something private and not have it be saved in the computer's memory is also because incognito mode gets rid of all of your cookies when you close the window effectively like wiping off the handstamp the next time you go to that same website. So that's all a cookie is. It's a key value pair that can be planted on your computer, but it's a wonderfully powerful mechanism for implementing, and this is the juiciest idea for today, I'd argue, what are called sessions. Sessions are this feature whereby browsers and servers have a persistent connection to each other, even though HTTP is what we'll call stateless. So stateless just means that you don't have a constant connection to the server when you are using a website. And that's not always true. And nowadays you sometimes do have a consistent a persistent connection but cookies allow you to close your laptop even shut down your computer come back the next day and still have the illusion of being connected just as you were the previous day because of this virtual presentation of handstamps. So a session more concretely you can think of in Python as a dictionary of key value pairs that you can associate with each and every user. That is to say, when I log into a website that is using sessions implemented with cookies, they can store any number of key value pairs about me in the server's memory. And my presentation of the handstamp will ensure that they keep uh they know which key value pairs to assign to mate. Let CD into a directory with which I came, which is called login, which is just going to be a relatively simple Flask application that demonstrates how you can implement the ability to log into a website. And we'll keep it super simple with just usernames, no passwords. But as you'll see in problem set 9, we'll add some passwords to the mix as well. If I type ls inside of this login directory, you'll see some familiar friends, app.py, requirements.ext, and templates. But let me draw our attention to one other library we're going to now start using called Flask session. So flask session is just a third party library that gives us the ability to use cookies in our application and not have to know or understand any of the screenshots we just saw of HTTP requests. it sort of suffices to stipulate, okay, someone figured out how cookies works. I just want to use them now as a feature so that when a user uses my website, I can associate data with them like who they are, what their username is, and therefore that they've logged in. So, let's go ahead and close requirements.ext and open up app.py in this case. Here is an implementation of a program whose purpose in life is to enable me to log in. And in fact, before we demon before we walk through the code, let me do this in this uh terminal, let's do flask run. And I already hit control C on my other terminal window a moment ago. Uh let me now go into my other tab up here and reload the slash route, which is now going to be this login route instead of frost imams. All this website does by default is it tells me first you are not logged in, but here's a link to log in. It's a little small, but if you look in the bottom lefthand corner of my browser right now, it's a URL that ends with slashlo. And in fact, I can see that more clearly if I view page source in the browser. Here is the only thing I'm really seeing in this web app so far. But notice what happens now. If I click on login, the route in my URL just changed to /lo. I'm again keeping it simple with just usernames, no passwords, but I'm going to log in as David and click login. But first, let me show you the code. In view page source, I have a form that submits to /lo using the post method. The only thing about this button that's that form that's interesting is it's got a text box and a login button. Same as we've seen before. So, let's click it. Now, I click login. And notice I get whisked away back to the original route, the slash route. Even though Chrome is hiding the slash from me, but the website somehow knows that I'm logged in as David. In fact, if I open up my page source in the browser, I'll see that now it doesn't say you are not logged in. It says I am logged in as David. And it's now giving me apparently conditionally a logout link. So I argue this is representative now of any website that lets you log in and out of it. So how does this work? Well, in my login account uh in my login app here, what do we have in app.py? The following. I've got from flask import flask redirect render template request and a new one session which you can essentially think of as a dictionary where you can store key value pairs for each and every user and flask will make sure that your code has a different copy of session for every user that visits. You can just treat it as though you only have one user, but Flask will ensure that when a user visits, they get their own copy of session, their own copy of session, their own copy of session essentially to store whatever you want. This next line here, I just need to copy paste from flask session import capital session. This line is the same. Turn this file into a flask app. This stuff is new and find a copy paste. This just says configure this app to use sessions by storing the cookies on the server as files instead of in a database or somewhere else. But this is the default that we use for our examples. All right, what's going on here? Well, in my slash route, I've got an index function whose purpose in life seems to be to render a template called index.html and then pass in a name placeholder, which is the value of session.get.name. So whatever name is stored in the session if any that gets passed into the template. So let's go down this rabbit hole. Let me open up index.html. Interesting. So here is the logic that implemented those two different versions of the homepage that we saw. If the name has a value, so if it's not empty, we saw you are logged in as such and such. Here's a logout link. If though there was no name, as happens by default before you even log in, you see you are not logged in. Here's a link to log in. So that's all the homepage is is it's conditional logic checking if there is in fact a user logged in. All right. Well, let's go back to app.pay. How does the login work? Well, if you find your way to the login route, then I'm asking a question. If the user got here via post, they probably got here by clicking the login button that I gave them. So, let's store in the session dictionary the word name and make the value of that key this value here where what I've just highlighted is whatever the user typed into the form whether it's David, Kelly, John or anyone else. That's what comes back from the form and I'm just storing that in the session which again is like this special global variable that you get one per user and it's implemented underneath the hood by way of cookies or these handstamps. Then I'm just redirected to the slash route. Otherwise, if the request method wasn't post, that means the user just van newly visited example.com or whatever my website is. That's why I show them login.html. All right, let's go down that rabbit hole. Let's open up login.html. It's pretty simple. It's just a stupid form that has a text box and a submit button. But the most important part is that as we saw in the browser, it submits to /lo the route we just saw. All right, if I go back to here, how do you log out? Well, we didn't actually click this, but here is how you can delete the contents of the session and actually log the user out. You just call session.clear. And so, in fact, if I go back over here and click log out, how does the server know that I've logged out? Well, that route very quickly, you didn't even see the URL bar change logged me out by clearing the whole session. And so, the cookie that was planted on my computer was essentially deleted at this point in time. Or really, the server side data that's associated with that cookie was deleted. So, I'm no longer seeing it at all. So, that's kind of it. Like, if you log into a website, whether it's Facebook or Gmail or Outlook or anything else, like that's effectively how they're logging you in, but of course, they're adding into the mix some uh passwords and other security as well. All right, how about one other example? Let me go back into VS Code here and let me go into my first terminal, hit C to kill this login example. Let me hit cd to go back and then cd uh store to implement the simplest of web stores like some kind of e-commerce site that has an actual shopping cart implemented. Let me do flask run inside of this directory. Open up my other terminal window. And in my other terminal window, I'm going to go cd to go back and then go into store here where I'm going to see some familiar files, namely app.py requirements.ext, but a database file this time in addition to my templates. Well, let's see what's inside of that database. Let me go ahead and run SQLite 3 of store.db dots schema to see what's in the database. Ah, this is like a bookstore like the very first version of amazon.com if you will. And the table has uh two columns an ID column and a title column for all of the books that this store shall sell. Well, what are those books? Select star from books semicolon. Okay, so this is a bookstore that sells only five books among them the Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy and sequels. All right. So, wouldn't it be nice if we have a website that displays everything in this catalog and lets me like add things to my cart? And in fact, here is maybe the better metaphor for what a session is. A session essentially gives you the ability to implement a shopping cart like this where the shopping cart of course in the real world is specific to each user. Like if I'm on Amazon.com and Kelly's on Amazon.com and both logged in, we obviously don't see the contents of each other's carts. And that's because we have separate cookies on our hands. And so Flask or whatever Amazon is using creates the illusion that we each have our own global dictionary called session in which Amazon can store any key value pairs it wants like what's in our shopping cart. So let's try this. Let me go back to my other browser and reload. So I'll now see not the login example but the bookstore example. And it's super ugly because I whipped it up using the simplest of HTML. But you'll see here every one of the books in the database plus an add to cart button. And even if again you're sort of new to all this web programming, there's not all that much you can do with HTML except use forms maybe with some hidden elements to achieve this result. So here we have the H1 tag with books. Here's an H2 which is big and bold but not quite as big. Here's the form. Here's the uh here's the button for the Hitcher's Guide to the Galaxy as an aside because there's like a curly quote or an apostrophe in the book's name. This is just an HTML entity that Flask is outputting for me, even though it's not there uh visually in the database. So, what is the button do for Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy? Well, it's a form whose action is /cart, presumably because I want to add it to my cart using the post method. I've got an input name equals ID, the type of which is hidden, the value of which is one. And fast forward 2 3 4. So just like the dregister example for Kelly, similarly, is each book going to be addable to a cart instead of removable by using that unique ID? And indeed, every form has an add to cart button. So what's happening then on the server? Well, let's take a look at the other tab here. If I go back into uh VS Code and if I go into my let's say let's minimize the terminal window here and let's open up inside of store. Let's open up our template for index.html which is sort of the entry point. Oh, which is not that. Uh let's open up app.py first and figure out what's going on. So at the top we have some imports including our SQL library. We have an app variable being created, a DB variable being created using that same store.db. We've got this boilerplate code which just again enables cookies and stores the contents on the local file system instead of in a database. Ah here's the interesting beginning point. How did I see that big page with all the books and the buttons? Well, for the slash route, we've got this function that first uses some SQL to get all of the books from the database. Select star from books. And then, ah, there's no index.html because I called it books.html in this case just because. And I set the books placeholder equal to the value of the books variable. All right, let's go down this rabbit hole now. Let's open up the templates folders books.html file. Okay, so here we have that H1 with books and then we have a for loop which is going to output for every book an H2 tag and a form tag a form tag again and again and again each of which has a value that equals the current book's ID but the title in the H2 of course is the title of the book which is more human friendly. So what happens when I actually click on add to cart for the Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy? Well, I should indeed see that now that one book has been added. And if I go back and add another like the restaurant at the end of the universe, I now have two books in my cart. So, where is that data actually being stored? Well, if we go back to VS Code here, uh, hide the terminal and focus on the cart route. The cart route because it supports post in addition to get also is doing this for me. Well, first it's checking with some logic here. If there is no cart in the session, go ahead and create a key called cart and set it equal to an empty list. In other words, I can put any key value pairs into the session that I want. So, if I want my shopping cart to effectively be a list of all of the books that the user has added to their cart, it stands to reason that my cart by default should just be an empty list when they first arrive. However, if the user has clicked submit in order to get here, well, I'm going to do this. I'm going to get the ID of the book that they've submitted via that form. And if it indeed exists and it's not someone like Kelly messing around and sending me invalid parameters, I am going to append to the cart list in the session the book ID. And then I'm just going to redirect the user to the cart. And anytime you do a redirect that always is using get, not post. And so when I come back to this cart route later, I'm not going to be using post. I'm going to be using get, which means this chunk of code here is executed. I have a variable called books. set it equal to the results of doing select star from books where id in the following parenthesized list of ids recall that in is the preposition that gives me back multiple ids if I so choose and then I'm rendering cart.html HTML with those there books. And if I go back to the application, the reason why I'm seeing two elements here, and indeed if I go to my developer tools or view page source rather, I'll see two list items inside of an ordered list or a numbered list containing the contents then of that shopping cart. All right. So, if we now have the ability to use sessions to remember who has logged in and we have the ability with sessions to remember what someone has added to their shopping cart, what else can we do with web applications more generally, even if not using sessions? Well, let me go ahead and close this tab here. Let me go back to VS Code here. Close out these two examples and let's do a final set of examples that demonstrate what we can do with some real world data and a web application. I have lastly a directory called shows which is evocative of our use of IMDb in the past. And I'm going to go ahead into my first terminal window. Hit control C and call your attention to one thing before we move on. Every time I have executed a SQL query inside of my code in my first terminal window where Flask is running, you'll see either in green for success or yellow or red for some issues the actual SQL code uh SQL commands that are being sent to your database. This is useful if you mess something up at some point related to a database query. You can actually see in your terminal where you're running flask run actually what SQL command was sent to the server to to try to troubleshoot errors that way. Otherwise, you're just flying blind when actually interacting only with the web browser. But for now, let me go ahead and clear that away and cd back to my default directory and cd now into shows where if I type ls, we'll see a whole bunch of files. app.py requirements.ext text and this time shows.db which is the very same database that we had in past weeks when we played with some of the very large number of shows in the internet movie database. And what does zap.py do here? Well, it implements the simplest of programs. This gives me access first to shows.db with some boilerplate up top. If I scroll down here, you'll see that there's a uh index.html template that's rendered by default. And then apparently there's a search route which is akin to what Google does for us when we searched for cats and dogs in the past. But for the first time I'm implementing my own search engine for TV shows, not for dogs and cats. But what does this search route do? Well, it uses a shows variable and it executes the SQL select star from shows where title equals question mark and it passes in just like Google does the Q parameter for query and then it renders a template called search.html HTML passing in those shows as a placeholder. In other words, what does this do? Well, let me go back over to the store uh to the store tab here. Change the URL to just slash. And because I'm now running uh I'm no longer running the store, I do want to go ahead and run in my first terminal window flask run to start start off the shows application instead. So if I now go back to that tab because no server is running, what I see here now is the simplest of search boxes like our Google example asking for a query, but this time I can search for things with which I'm more familiar, like the office, capital T, capital O, search. And what I get back, not that enlighteningly, but is the title of every show that matches exactly that. If I go ahead and view page source, you'll see that what was generated was a unordered list of offices that are in the database. And recall there's the British one, the American one, and a bunch of others as well. However, this form does not work. If I type in something like the office search, I get no results in that case, which isn't so much a bug. Well, is just a lack of features here. And so, let me actually go into VS Code here, and let me propose that we come up with a better version of this code. So, in fact, I'm going to go into the pre-made examples with which I came today. I'm going to go into the next version of shows here. Run flask run here. reload the application over here and now show you that the office in lowercase does actually work. Moreover, it searches for anything that mentions the office. So if you had to guess how might this be implemented underneath the hood, well, if I open up my other terminal window and go into that same directory, shows one and open up this version of app.py, PI you'll see that instead of using a simple query like before I'm now using the like keyword here because I'm checking that it is like the office and notice this is a bit clever here or a bit confusing at first glance the placeholder I want is question mark but I don't want to just search for the user's input I want to tolerate zero or more characters to the left via the SQL wild card and zero or more characters to the right so I'm concatenating onto the user's input a percent sign here a percent sign here because recall from our week seven with SQL. This just means look for anything case insensitively that has t space o ffic in it no matter where that string is in the text. How did it know to render that though as this bulleted list of all of these offices? Well, let me go into my terminal here and open up uh search.html which is the template that the search route is using. And you'll see that I'm just iterating over with a ginger for loop each of those shows. and then outputting a list item for each of those matches effectively just as I did before. But there's this other technique I can use altogether and it's generally going to open up more possibilities for us in final projects if not beyond of creating essentially my own API. Rather than to just make a web app that spits out the entire HTML page that I want the user to see, wouldn't it be nice if I could just start to create routes that spit out the data that I want and then I or even some third party making a website with the same data can integrate my application into their own. And indeed, an API is an application programming interface. And it's essentially web- based functions you can call to get data from someone else's services generally using HTTP. And you can return the data in any number of formats in text format um in HTML format or in something called JSON format which is short for JavaScript object notation which looks a little something like this which is quite like Python arrays and dictionaries combined. But notice here with a wave of the hand, there's a whole bunch of key value pairs in this particular example of all of the offices that are in IMDb's database. And so I wanted to show us these final versions of this same shows application that works a little bit differently. If I go into say shows 2 example here now run whoops and let's go ahead and exit out of the previous flask copy and run shows two inside of which is flask run. Notice here that if I go back to this web form now, notice that there is no more search button because this is meant to be highly interactive and I can search for t space of ffic. And you'll notice that this is effectively autocomplete which we saw a taste of last week with JavaScript which I am in fact using here. But how is this working? Well, let me reload and open up my developer tools. And in developer tools, let's watch the network tab this time because when I type in something like t, you'll see that my web page suddenly made a request to my own slasharch route. And if I click on my developer tools and look at the response that came back, you'll see that the slasharch route spit out not a full web page, but just a whole bunch of LI tags. Now, why is that? Well, let me go back to VS Code and open up in my other terminal uh app.py. And in app.py, scrolling down to search, you'll see that when I get shows from the database, I'm still using search.html, which previously extended my layout and plugged in that whole ordered unordered list. But this time, if I go into this version of search.html, HTML, you'll see that I'm only spitting out raw HTML because I'm assuming that maybe someone, myself included, wants to use slash search to just get a whole bunch of list items that they can put into their own unordered list or UL tag. And so what's effectively happening over here is every time I type a letter, notice at bottom left, another HTTP request goes across the internet, another HTTP request, and each of those is returning the set of LI elements that line up with the query that I've typed in. But this is a little sloppy arguably in so far as I'm returning a chunk of HTML, but out of context, and I'm dictating to the user that they have to use list items. Wouldn't it be nice to just send the raw data? And I can do that, too. Let me go back into VS Code here and look at our final example, shows three, inside of which is a version of this code that now returns that so-called JavaScript object notation. And if I go into shows three, run flask run, go back over now to my browser tab, and click reload, I'll see now when I search for say T and click on that row. Notice now in the response tab of my developer tools, I'm getting back a whole bunch of juicy information. A massive JavaScript object notation chunk of data. Notice the square bracket means here comes a list or an array. Here comes a dictionary or dict. And indeed, that's what I'm seeing. This looks like Python, but it's technically JavaScript and it's technically JavaScript's object notation. This just means this is the juicy data I'm getting back from the server. And if you now think way back to week zero and even our family weekend lecture on AI, a lecture on AI where I was writing code that talked to open AIS so-called API to get responses from our serverside cat. They were sending us JavaScript object notation like this and I was just grabbing the data that I actually cared about, namely the cat's actual response. And so in this case, if I open up in my other terminal window here, app.py, Pi. You'll see in my search route that instead of returning a template, I'm using a crazy named function called JSONify, which is just another function that comes with Flask itself that has the effect of taking the list of Python dictionaries that came back from my SQL database, JSONifying it in such a way that I then can uh serve it to anyone on the internet, myself included, as a service so that I and they can use my own data to implement ment their own web web applications. So that's sort of it for web programming. Ultimately, you now have all of the building blocks from week zero onward to make your own web applications. And if you so choose for final projects, your own mobile applications, even if this too, like everything else has felt like a bit of a fire hose, it is in the process of your final project of specking out and proposing and executing your own final project that will make all of this feel much more comfortable and familiar. And you'll look back on so many of the past weeks as useful building blocks. Uh but this then was your CS50 education weeks 0 through nine. We have just one more left next week. So we'll see you then. All right, this is CS50 week 10, the very end. And we will end today's class just as we ended week zero, which is a little bit of cake outside in the transcept. But over these past 10 plus weeks, if you've been feeling like it was that proverbial fire hose sort of hitting you in the face with so much new content, so many new skills, so many new challenges, um realize that you're in very good company. And we can officially declare nonetheless that if you started the class among those less comfortable, you are officially after today no longer less comfortable. You're at least somewhere in between. And if you were in between, you're more comfortable. And if you were more comfortable, you're perhaps now most comfortable among those here. Um, but keep in mind as per CS50 syllabus, what does ultimately matter in this course is not so much where you end up relative to your classmates, but where you end up relative where uh to where you yourself began. And that's taken into account come final projects, come final grades. But most importantly, that's really what's most important educationally in general is that delta from week zero to in our case here now week 10. Uh, so if it's any reassurance, something I like to bring up around this time is just how badly I did in CS50 and like the very first problem set. Like I didn't even get hello world right somehow in the fall of 1996. So here's a photograph of my homework assignment for assignment one. It was a program to print hello world on the screen. I was incredibly detailed with my comments. Even commenting that main is main which is not the way you're supposed to program. Even telling the the TF where my file ended, which is not really necessary. And I got minus two for not even following directions uh correctly. So take some comfort in that. Even if by problems at nine, you're still getting points off, you're hopefully, at least in my case, in some very good company. It only gets better and easier uh and faster in time. But the whole course ultimately has really been about this picture, right? Problem solving is computer science. And you have inputs, which is the problem to be solved. You have the outputs that you want to get to, which is presumably the solutions there, too. And inside of that proverbial black box are these algorithms, step-by-step instructions for solving some problem. And I pulled up my own notes from CS50's first lecture some 25 plus years ago too where I wrote down this in my horrible writing handwriting to this day. But I noted that what an algorithm is is a precise sequence of steps for getting something done which is pretty much what we now say. Uh I noted that programming itself as we have for weeks now is the process of taking an algorithm and putting it into a language that a computer can process and that's what you've done in Scratch and C and Python and SQL and JavaScript and anything in between. Um, and most important, at least my takeaway that day when it comes to algorithms is precision and correctness. Um, and indeed those are points we've made perhaps not as emphatically um, over the past several weeks as well. But we thought we'd see just how much those two lessons in particular have sunk in uh, by doing a bit of an exercise, some CS50 Pictionary and this our last lecture al together this term. Um, for which to begin we need one brave volunteer to come on up stage. Who would like to volunteer? Who? How about Okay, over here. We never call from the middle of the section. Come on up. Come on up. A round of applause for being so brave. Nice. All right, come on over. And in just a moment, let's go ahead and do introductions. First, if you want to come up over to the middle of the uh stage and introduce yourself to the world. &gt;&gt; Hi, I'm Gia. I'm a freshman. &gt;&gt; All right. Nice. Nice to meet you. Thank you for joining us. So, what we're about to do is G is going to look at my screen where there's going to be a picture on a white screen. All of you presumably have a white sheet of paper in front of you that you grabbed on the way in. If you don't, just grab one from a friend or your binder or the like. And if you really don't, that's okay, too. But hopefully everyone has a pen or pencil or someone near you does. And what Gia, we're going to ask you to do is program the audience to draw what it is you see on the screen. You can say anything you want, but you may not use any physical gestures or the like. Verbal programming only. &gt;&gt; All right. Come on over to the lectern and in just a moment GN only Gia will see what is actually here on the screen. So, step one for your audience. Okay. So, the first thing that you need to do is draw two lines right next to each other. Two vertical lines. Okay. &gt;&gt; Step two. &gt;&gt; Step two. Once you have done that, you need to draw three dots. One on above those two vertical lines, one right in the middle between those two vertical lines, and one at on the bottom of these three vertical lines, but beneath those two vertical lines. Yeah. So, three dots. &gt;&gt; Okay. Step three. Step three is on the top of the left vertical line, you're going to connect a line from that position to the top dot that you drew. And then on the top of the right vertical line, you're going to connect that position to the top dot that you drew. &gt;&gt; All right, step four &gt;&gt; is remember that top left position? You're going to connect that to the middle dot that you drew. And then the top right of the vertical line at the Yes. You're going to connect that to the middle dot of the line that you drew. &gt;&gt; Got it? &gt;&gt; And then step five, on the bottom left of your left vertical line, you're going to connect that position to the bottom dot that you drew. And then on the bottom right of the right vertical line, you're going to connect that position to the bottom dot that you drew. And now from the middle dot to the bottom dot, you should have no line in between that. And you can now draw a line between those two dots. &gt;&gt; Step six and the last. &gt;&gt; I think you should be done. &gt;&gt; All right. A round of applause then for our programmer. Let me give you a little &gt;&gt; if you want to take a seat. So now what Kelly and I are going to do is very quickly collect your execution of this program and we'll see just how it went with Gia as the programmer. If you want to just reach out and hand me or Kelly over there any of your handwritings. We don't need all of them. Just a representative sample will suffice. If you're proud of your work, extend your hand quite a bit. Okay. Very proud. &gt;&gt; Okay. Okay. One more. One more. That's okay. All right. All right, I'm going to run back to the stage. Okay, it's okay if we didn't grab yours. All right. All right. Thank you to Kelly for grabbing these as well. So, without having seen any of these, here is how you all interpreted Gia's instructions. So, here's one interpretation. Okay. Perhaps similar or different from your own. Uh here's another several vertical vertical line question mark. Okay. Uh here is very narrow one. and let's see if we got any other variants thereof. Actually, the rest of them are pretty consistent. So, G, if it's any reassurance, I'm seeing a lot of ones that look like this. Here's another that looks like th this. And here's yet another that looks like this. So, if you're wondering where we're going with this, if I go ahead and reveal what it was Gia was looking at on the screen, she was in fact having you draw this here cube. So, some of the takeaways here. So, suffice to say, not all of that went well. Uh, but why was that? Well, I dare say it was very easy to get confused, I think, G, in some of your words because you had in your mind's eye exactly what it was you were drawing. And of course, it was right there on the screen. But we didn't leverage, at least in G's instructions, any abstractions. I dare say it might have been a little bit easier for all of us if maybe she had just teed things up by saying, "All right, everyone, we're going to draw a cube," for instance, which is indeed an abstraction over these lower level details that she was focusing on. But perhaps there could have been another approach altogether, which is even more pedantic. For instance, a lot of the earliest drawing programs and even worlds like Scratch sort of take for granted that you have a coordinate system like X's and Y's and you can go up, down, left, and right. So, an alternative to just saying, "Hey, I'll draw a cube, which could be subject to interpretation because the cube like this is it like this rotated." So, we still would have needed more information than just a cube from Gia. But here, maybe an alternative approach would have been to really get into the weeds and say, "Put your pen at the top of the page and then draw a straight line to the southwest, for instance, and then draw another line of the same distance to the south and then to the southeast or so forth." And it could have been in terms of degrees. It could be directionally in that way, but it might not have been clear to anyone what it was we were drawing until enough of the lines suddenly appear on the screen and then voila, you see that we've been drawing a cube this whole time. So the degree to which we're precise and the layer of the level of abstraction that we operate in is incredibly important. Whether it's for another human to understand us, for an AI to understand us nowadays, or anything in between. All right, why don't we go ahead and flip things around a bit um for this? Why don't we go ahead and get one more volunteer to do something a little different here on stage? One more. Okay, how about here on the aisle? Come on down. Round of applause for this brave volunteer. Come on down. All right. So, in this exercise, we're going to flip things around. So, you all will be giving the instructions verbally by just shouting them out. And our volunteer, whose name is &gt;&gt; Presley. &gt;&gt; Preston. &gt;&gt; Presley. Presley, you want to say a quick introduction? &gt;&gt; Yeah. Uh, my name is Presley. I'm a freshman uh living in Stoton House. &gt;&gt; Nice. Well, welcome. Come on over to the the uh the easel here. And we have a black marker for Presley here. And the only thing that we ask is that you not look up or behind you because the answer is going to be right there on the screen. But everyone else is welcome to look up or over to the TV screen. And if you want to go ahead and face the easel here and as you draw, just make sure to kind of open up after each uh stroke of the pen so that everyone can see what you have done. All right. So no looking up as of now because what the audience is about to do is to program you to draw this on the screen. Oh, way to encourage him. Okay. So, step one, feel free to just raise your hand and we'll shout them out. &gt;&gt; Oh, I heard draw a circle over here. &gt;&gt; But not too big. I heard over here a stick figure. &gt;&gt; Good abstraction. You're going to end up drawing a stick figure. But we should probably be a little more helpful than that. So, let's do the hand thing just so we can be more precise and not overwhelm Presley. There was a hand over here. Yeah. And back. &gt;&gt; Draw a line down. &gt;&gt; Draw a line down from the circle. Presley &gt;&gt; from the bottom &gt;&gt; from the bottom of the circle. Okay, someone else. &gt;&gt; Actually, let me let me rewind. Sorry. Say it again. &gt;&gt; Draw two diagonal lines from the line you just drew. &gt;&gt; Well, I don't think the audience likes this. Wait, let's Oh, &gt;&gt; okay. Okay, that's what we were told. Next step, someone else. &gt;&gt; Good one. Okay. Extend the original vertical line to be about the same height as the circle. &gt;&gt; Okay. Yeah, that's good. Good feedback. All right. Someone else. Next step. Next step. Yes. Draw two diagonal lines from the bottom of the line. of that line that look like legs. Good use of detail and abstraction. Okay, nice. Next step. &gt;&gt; Anyone? We're close. Yeah, over here. line &gt;&gt; on the left. So, you're going to draw a speech bubble to the left of the head with the word high, capital H, with a short line. &gt;&gt; No bubble, just high. &gt;&gt; And you wanted to clarify one other detail. And then a line from high to the face. &gt;&gt; A line from high to the face &gt;&gt; with space in between. Okay. No, you're doing great. It's okay, Presley. Okay. Hang in there. Okay. Final step or two. Next step. Anyone at all. &gt;&gt; Feel free to shout it out. &gt;&gt; Adjust the arms to make them look like they're running. Good luck. &gt;&gt; Draw a perpendicular line from the left arm. &gt;&gt; Oh, I like that. Draw a perpendicular line from the left arm &gt;&gt; to the bottom &gt;&gt; to the bottom. &gt;&gt; Okay. And lastly, one final step. &gt;&gt; Same side as Yeah, it's permanent. Uh, I think we need a final touch on the other arm. Maybe. Yes. One final step. &gt;&gt; Anyone? &gt;&gt; Draw a perpendicular line per diagonally to the left &gt;&gt; of the arm &gt;&gt; of the right arm. Just a little bit. &gt;&gt; Just a little bit. &gt;&gt; All right. I think I've I think we've withheld our applause long enough. Presley, if you want to take a step back and look at what you They were trying to get you to draw a round of applause. So, here too. Let me Here you go. Your dorm room if you would like. Okay. And a little Super Mario as well. All right. So, here too. Um, I think you were the problem this time. Round of applause for Presley. And of course, since it's, you know, permanent ink, it's easy to sort of go off the rails early on and make a mistake. But I think that was actually a nice mix of low-level details like the directions of the lines and the lengths thereof and also some abstractions because I do dare say someone shouting out that it is to be a stick figure gave him a much more helpful mental model. So that might be sort of the comments on top of the function, but when we really got into the weeds of implementing that function, it was more akin to stepbystep instructions for solving this here particular problem. So my thanks to Presley for bearing with us with that one as well. So beyond this, where have we been up until now? So uh if we look back at the past several weeks, this is sort of the trajectory on which uh we've been. So we started with scratch from scratch literally in the very first week. The goal of which was to introduce you to some of those procedural fundamentals like what a loop is and a conditional and boolean expressions and variables which have pretty much recurred in different forms and different languages over the week since thereafter we transitioned to a more traditional language C which many of you will never use again and admittedly even I only use it for like a month or two of the year during CS50 itself. The intent was to be this incredibly foundational language that so many other languages today are built on top of. Case in point, the interpreter that you might use for Python itself can be written in C. And that speaks to how we sort of talked about bootstrapping from one language to another, from lowlevel to high level and beyond. Arrays and algorithms, all of that and uh memory and data structures like all of that is sort of omnipresent in computing, in programming and the like. even though you might not need to in modern languages like Python uh worry as much about managing your own memory because good programmers better programmers have figured out how to solve those problems for you in the language itself or in the libraries that you're using. You can take for granted now that you at least know what a hash table is, what a linked list is, what the trade-offs are among those, what the running times are. And that's what computer scientists and software engineers think about and talk about and whiteboard about in the real world when trying to implement algorithms of their own to real world problems or implementing real world products. And then of course over the past few weeks we've sort of used that as a stepping stone to talk about very modern programming paradigms. most recently web programming. And even though we didn't use it explicitly in the class, mobile programming is increasingly based on HTML and CSS and JavaScript, which might be something some of you will tackle for your own final projects. And you can't escape now using or seeing or leveraging somehow artificial intelligence. And among the goals for today is to at least point you in the direction of tools that now having finished problem set 9, you are welcome and encouraged to use for your final project so that you can build all the more um and all the more successfully than even some of your predecessors just a few years ago could have now that your own work and your own knowhow can be amplified by the impact of AI itself. Um this of course now brings us to today the end, but wanted to give you a sense of where you can go here on out. So with your final project, this really is the uh the intent of the final project is to be the very first of hopefully many projects that you decide to spec out for yourself. Like every problem set thus far has been written by me and the team and you've been following our instructions step by step. The final project takes all of those training wheels off. And even though you are welcome and encouraged to borrow code from say problem set 9 if you want to do something web- based or even earlier if you want to do something that's more similar to past pets is to make it ultimately your own. And even if you want, start with a completely empty window and just a blinking prompt and build something of your own. Um, setting out for yourself, as you've seen in the specification, a good goal, which you intend to meet no matter what, a better goal, which is a bit more of a stretch, and a best goal, which in practice rarely ever happens with software. To this day, 25 years since taking CS50 myself, um, or plus now, um, even I consistently underappreciate just how long it takes sometimes to solve problems. But that's beginning to go away at least to some extent thanks to AI where at least now you essentially have a junior colleague next to you who can help solve bugs for you, point you in the right direction, even tackle features as well. Um, all that we ask for this final project is that you build something of interest to you, that you solve an actual problem, that you impact campus, or that you, as we say in the spec, change the world and try to achieve something, try to create something that outlives the course itself over these final few weeks of the class and even continue on with it if you'd like in January and beyond. Uh, for now, this the so-called CS50 charades for which we need two teams of three. So, if you're sitting there in a group of three of friends total, or we'll form one up here live. So, come on up as our first volunteer. Need five more volunteers. Feel free to volunteer. The person's next to you. Three in a row. How about two more over here? One. And how about two on the end? Come on up. All right. And a round of applause for these six here volunteers. And all right, let me give you one microphone. Let me give you second microphone. And Kelly, if you want to come on up as well. I think these three seem to know each other already. So, we'll have them be one team. If you guys want to be another team as well, come on up. Uh, let me take one microphone actually for the other team. All right. And how about quick introductions to this team here. And first, we