here are sort of like traces of every bit of work that we did. We started up here. We did the left half, the left half of the left half, the right half of the right half, and then everything else in between. And you'll see that essentially I took a list of size eight and I did three different passes through it. At this conceptual level, at this conceptual level, and at this one. And each time I did that, I had to merge elements together. And if you kind of think about it here, I pointed at four elements here and four elements here. And in total, I pointed at eight elements. So there was n steps here for merging. And if you trust me, I'll claim that on this level conceptually, there were also eight steps. I wasn't merging lists of size four, but I was merging two lists of size two over here and two more lists of size two over there. So if you add those up, those are n total steps or or merges, if you will. And then down here, this was sort of kind of silly. I was but I was merging ultimately eight single lists alto together into the higher level of con uh of conceptually. So from a list of size eight we sort of had three levels of work and on each level we did n steps the merging. So where is three? Well it turns out if you have eight elements up here the relationship between 8 and three is actually something formulaic and we can describe it as log base 2 of n. Why? Because if n is eight, if you don't mind doing some logarithms here, log base 2 of 8 is the same thing as log base 2 of 2 to the 3 power. The log 2 and the two cancel itself out, which gives you exactly the number three that I sort of visualized with those traces on the screen. Which is to say irrespective of the specific value of n the big O running time of merge sort is apparently not n^ squ but it's log n time n or more conventionally n * log n because you're doing n things log n times technically base 2 but we don't care about that generally for big O notation and indeed in big O notation we would say that merge sort is on the order of N log N that's its big O running time sort of at the upper bound. What about the lower order bound? Well, there's no clever optimization in our current implementation as there was for bubble sort. And so it turns out the lower bound would be an omega of n login and in theta therefore of n login as well because big o and omega are in fact in this case one and the same. And if we actually go back to our visualization from earlier, give me just a moment to pull that up here. In our earlier implementation or an earlier demonstration of these algorithms, we had a side-by-side comparison of all the comparisons. But here, if I go ahead and randomize it and click merge sort, you'll see a very different and clearly faster algorithm. Even though the computer speed has not changed, but it's touching these elements so many fewer times, it's wasting a lot less time because of this cleverness where it's instead dividing and conquering the problem into smaller and smaller and smaller pieces. And to give this a final flourish since that was yes faster but not necessarily obviously faster than other things that we've done. How might we actually compare these things side by side by side? Well, in our final moments together, let's go ahead and dramatically and for no real reason just dim the lights so that I'll hit play on a visualization that at the top is going to show you selection sort with a bunch of random data. On the bottom is going to show you show you bubble sort with a bunch of random data. And in the middle is going to show you merge sort. And the takeaway ultimately for today is the appreciable feel of difference between big O of N^2 and now big O of N log N. All right. The music just makes sorting more fun. But that's it for today. We will see you next time. All right. This is CS50 and this is week four, the week in which we take off the proverbial training wheels that have been the CS50 library and reveal to you all the more what's going on underneath the hood of a computer in terms of its memory. We'll also talk about files and how you can actually persist information for a long time, whether it's a file you've downloaded or today that you've created yourself. But first, I just wanted to share some artwork that two of your classmates, Avery and Marie, kindly made before class, which is a picture made out of Post-it notes. uh some green, some purple, which collectively from where you are looks like what? &gt;&gt; Yeah. So indeed it's a cat that they made using only zeros and ones or green and purple pieces. And in fact, even though this is fairly low resolution in that it only has a few pixels this way and a few pixels this way, it's actually representative of how computers do actually store images underneath the hood. So let's actually start there. In fact, we've had this bowl of stress balls for some time here on the lect turn. And if we take a beautiful photo of it, they look a little something like this. Of course, this too is a finite resolution. And by resolution, I just mean how many dots go horizontally and how many dots go vertically. Multiply those two together and you get some number of bytes, maybe in kilobytes, megabytes, or heck, if it's a massive image, it could be even bigger than that. But it is in fact finite. And if we zoom in on this image, you start to see a little more detail. But at the same time, if you keep zooming in, you start to see indeed that there's only finite detail. And when we go really uh zoomed in, you start to see actual dots or pixels as they're called. In fact, on most any screen, any image you look at, if you look close enough by pulling your phone up to your eyes or walking really close to a TV, you may very well see the same thing because any image on a screen like this is represented by hundreds, thousands, millions of tiny little dots called pixels. And each of those pixels has a color that gives it collectively the appearance of stress balls in this case or cats in this case. So in fact among the things we're going to do this week in the problem set is actually have you write code via which you can manipulate your own images um not only to understand what's going on underneath the hood but to apply some of today's most familiar filters so to speak. In fact if we go all the way down here you'll see that this image of course is multiple colors. We've got some white and some red and shades in between. But let's keep things simple for a moment and propose that instead of looking at these dots, we look at these zeros and ones. And let me propose that in a picture like this, any zero will be interpreted as black. Any one will be interpreted as white accordingly. If you can see it, what is this a picture of? &gt;&gt; Oh, smiley face is in fact right. Because if you kind of focus only on the zeros and try to ignore those ones, as I can do here for you, you'll see that embedded in that image was in fact this smiley face. Now, this would be a sort of one bit image. You either have a zero or one representing each of the colors. In modern times, we would actually use 16 bits per color, 24 bits for color, maybe even more. And that's how we can get every color of the rainbow instead of just something black and white. But in effect, what's happening here is that if you did have a file on your Mac or PC or phone storing this pattern of zeros and ones and you opened it up in some kind of image program or like the photos app, it would be depicted to you visually as this simply a grid X and Y where some of the dots are white, some of the dots dots are black. All right, so with that said, how what kinds of um representations might be involved here? Well, we can actually rewind to week zero. Recall that we talked briefly about RGB, which just means red, green, and blue, which is one of the most common ways to represent colors inside of a computer. And if any of you have ever dabbled with Photoshop or similar editing programs, or if maybe in high school or earlier you made your own web pages, odds are you're actually familiar with a syntax we're going to see a lot of today. This doesn't add anything intellectually new. It's just an introduction to a common convention for how else we can represent numbers. So, this is a screenshot of Photoshop's color picker. Photoshop being a popular program for editing photos and files. And you'll see here that my selected color looks to the human eye as black. And I've highlighted here how I got that. I chose black by typing in 0 0 0. Which also, if you look up here, means that I want zero red, zero green, and zero blue. And yet, we somehow translated it to six zeros instead of just three. Well, if we take a look at another color like white instead, I claim that you can represent white in Photoshop and today in code with FF FFF or equivalently 255 red, 255 green, 255 blue. And here, if you think back to week zero is maybe a hint at where we're going with this. If you're using an 8bit number, which means then you can count from zero on up to 255. So recall that 255 is like the biggest number you can represent with just eight bits. And yet somehow there's going to be a relationship between the 255s and these Fs that we see down here. Let's just run through a few more. If we wanted to represent something like red, we're going to use FF 000000. If we want to represent green, we're going to use 00 FF 0. And lastly, to represent blue, we're going to use 0000 FF. So what's going on here? And why do we have just this different convention? Well, turns out in the context of images and also memory in general, it's just human convention or programmer convention to use this alternate representation of numbers. Not the so-called decimal system, but another one that's not all that far off from what we've been doing over the past few weeks. So, here again was the binary system. You've got just two digits in your vocabulary, 0 and one. Here is the familiar decimal system where you've got 10 instead, 0 through 9. Suppose we wanted a few more digits. Well, we're sort of out of Arabic numerals here, but I could toss into the mix like A, B, C, D, E, and F, either in lowercase or uppercase. And in fact, that's what computer scientists do when they want to have more than just 10 digits available to them, but as many as 16 digits available. And in fact, when you want to use this many digits, you call it hexa decimal, implying that you've got 16 digits, aka base 16. Now, this there's an infinite number of base systems. We could do base 3, base 4, base 15, base 17 on up. But this is just one of the relatively few conventions that are popular in computing. And let's just tease it apart because we're going to see these kinds of numbers a lot. Well, thankfully, like in week zero, like it's the same old number system with which you're familiar with the columns and the placeholders. It's just the bases in those columns mean a little something different. So instead of using powers of two or powers of 10, we're going to today use powers of 16. So 16 to the 0 of course is 1. 16 to the first power is uh 16. So we have the ones column, the 16's column and so forth. Meanwhile, if we wanted to therefore start counting in hexadimal, this twodigit number in hexadimal is of course the number you and I know in decimal as 0 because it's still just 16 * 0 + 1 * 0. This in hexadeimal is how you would represent one, but you would say 01 or 01 instead of just one to make clear there's two digits. This would be 02 03 04 05 6 7 8 9. Now things get a little interesting. In the decimal world, we're about to carry the one and give ourselves two digits 1 and zero. But in hexodimal, you can keep going. So the next number in hexodimal is going to be 0 A 0 B 0 C 0 D 0 E 0 F. And now things get interesting again. What probably comes after zero F? Even if you've never seen hex before &gt;&gt; so one zero. You still still carry the one as before. This goes back to zero. And why is this now appropriate? Well, how many digits did we just how many numbers did we just count through? Well, we started at 0 0. We went up through 0 F. And that's a total of 16 combinations. So, the highest we counted, let me rewind. This number here, of course, is going to be 1* F. But what is F? Well, let's rewind further. In fact, let's have our little cheat sheet here. If we want to have these digits at our disposal, I dare say that 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15. So fif f is just going to represent the number 15. So if we now fast forward back to where we were just counting from zero on up through 0 a through 0 f, we land here. This of course is 16 * 0 1 * f which is 1 * 15. So this is how in hexodimal you would represent the number 15. This in hexodimal is how you would represent the number 16 instead. 15 to 16. This is not 10. That's how you would pronounce it in decimal. This is 1 0 in hexodimal because 16 * 1 + 1 * 0 gives us of course 16. Now we could do this toward infinity but we won't. 1 2 1 3 dot dot dot all the way up to ff. So quick mental math. 16 * f. That is to say 16 * 15 + 1 * 15 is any guesses? &gt;&gt; It is in fact 255. You don't even have to do the math because if you just think about where we were going with this, indeed we saw pairs of fs in the Photoshop screenshots because this is how a computer would represent the number you and I know in decimal is 255 by just using two fs. So why do we care about hexadimal? Well, it turns out that it's just convenient to use two hexadesimal digits to represent numbers because a single hexodimal digit can be used to represent four bits at once. For instance, let me go ahead and explode this by putting a little bit of space between the two digits here. And let's consider how you would represent f. Well, if f is 15 and you want to represent 15 in binary, I think that's just going to be 1 one one. Now, why is that? Well, one in the eighth's place plus one in the four's place uh plus uh one in the two's place plus one in the onees place indeed gives me 15. So using a single f I can count up as we've seen already as high as 15. But of course I've claimed in the past that it's super common to use eight bits at a time or one bite to represent any value because that's just a very useful common unit of measure. And so in hexadimal if you wanted to represent four ones you can say f. If you want to represent another four ones, you can just say f, which is to say that f and f together is just like the same as eight ones together, which is how we finally get to the total number of 255 because this is the ones place, the two's place, the four's place, the 8s, 16, 32, 64, 128. But if you group these into clusters of four bits alone, you can represent all of the possibilities from 0 through 15 just using 0 through f. So with one hex digit you can represent four bits which is a long way of saying is it's just convenient for that reason which is why the world tends to use hex when talking about colors and as we'll see memory as well. So in fact let's consider what is meant by memory and what's going on inside of the computer when we've been storing values thus far. Well here's that canvas of memory. I proposed last time uh in uh I proposed last time and before that we can sort of number these bytes arbitrarily but reasonably. This is bite 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 dot dot dot and maybe this is bite 15. That's fine. Nothing wrong with that. But in the real world, any programmer would actually think of these locations instead not in decimal notation but in hexadimal notation just because because it's convenience for the reasons discussed. So we would actually number these from zero on up through 9 and then keep going with a b c d e f and so forth. So what does that mean for the other digits? Well, this would be 1 0. This would be 1 1. This would be 1 2 dot dot dot. Here now is 1 9. But here's 1 A, 1 B, 1 C, 1 D, 1 E, 1 F, and so forth, just using hexodimal notation. But there's arguably some ambiguity here. For instance, if you just at a glance were to look at this board and see this address 1 0, is that by 10 or is that byte 16? It's just non-obvious because if you don't know what base system you're working in, which you could infer by looking at the rest of it, it could potentially be ambiguous. So in the world of hexodimal, super common to literally prefix any number you ever write in hexodimal notation using 0x. The zero doesn't mean anything per se or the x. It just means what follows the 0x is a number in hexodimal notation which makes unambiguous the fact that this is o x10 which if you do the math in decimal again ends up being 16 not of course the number 10. In short today you're about to see a lot of zero x's and a lot of twodigit or fourdigit or 8digit numbers in hexodimal notation. Generally we don't care what the numbers translate to. You don't need to do a lot of math but it's going to be common place to see syntax like this. All right, back to sort of normal time. So, here is a line of code int n equals 50 wherein we might want to declare a variable called n and store a number like 50 in it. Let's actually go ahead and do this simple now as it probably is in a file called how about addresses C. We're going to play around with computer addresses. And in addresses C, I'm going to do something super simple at first whereby I'm going to include standard io.h. Then I'm going to go ahead and in uh write int main void. No command line arguments here. And then I'm going to declare this variable n, set it equal to the arbitrary but familiar value of 50. And then just so that this program does something mildly useful, let's go ahead and print out with percent i and a back slashn that value of n. So nothing new here. I'm just literally going through the motions of declaring a variable and printing its value. So let's do that. Make addresses enter dot slash addresses. And hopefully I'll indeed see the number 50. So, not all that much going on in the code, but let's consider what's going on in the computer's memory. This line of code and the one after it is giving the results of that program, but where is that n ending up? Well, here's my grid of memory. And let's just suppose for the sake of discussion that the 50 ends up down here. Maybe there's other things going on in my program. So, this part of my computer's memory is already in use. So, it's reasonable that it could end up in this location here. But what is important is that how many bytes am I using for n? Apparently, &gt;&gt; four. And that's because we've said integers tend to be four bytes aka 32 bits. So this is at least to scale even though I'm just imagining where it ends up in memory. So that's where the 50 actually ends up. So when I actually call print f and pass in n, clearly the computer is going to that location in memory and actually printing out that value. But that value is indeed at a specific memory address. It's not going to be quite as simple as ox0 or o x1 or a small number typically. It maybe is going to be something arbitrary like ox123 where I'm just making this up. It's an easily pronouncable number in hexadimal notation. All right. So what can I use that information for? Well, thus far this hasn't been useful to us, but certainly programs we've been writing have actually been making use of this. But with a bit more syntax, I can actually start to see things like this, not just on the screen, but in code. In fact, let me propose that we introduce two new operators in C. So, two new pieces of syntax. One is a single amperand and one is a single asterisk. And we'll see that uh the asterisk has a few different uses, but the amperand has a very simple straightforward one, which is to just get the address of a variable in memory. So if you've got a variable like n, if you prefix it with amperand n, you can actually ask the computer at what address is this variable stored. You can find out if it's indeed ox123 or something else altogether. So in fact, let me go ahead and do this by going back to my addresses.c program and let's see if we can print out not the value, which is obviously going to be 50, but let's actually print out the address thereof. So up here in my code, I'm going to change the N on line six to be amperand N instead. And I'm going to go ahead and make one other change because yes, N lives at an address. And yes, that address is technically a number, but it's conventional not to use percent I to display that number, but rather another piece of syntax, which is just a new format code, which you don't often need. This is more demonstrative than useful, I would say. But percent p is going to be what we use when we want to print out an address of something in the computer's memory. So, back to the VS Code. One more change. I'm going to change my percent i to percent p instead. So, at this moment, we should see a version of the program that's not going to display 50 anymore, but something like ox123, but probably a bigger number than that cuz my computer has way more memory than that address suggests. So, let's again make addresses. Let's run dot / addresses. And indeed, this variable at that moment in time apparently lives somewhere in the computer's memory at address ox7 FFD3 C34 EC C. All of those are hexodimal digits. It would be painful to do the mental math to figure out what the numeric address is. But we're seeing it indeed in this common hexodimal notation which is not going to be often useful for us as humans. But the computer is and has been using this information for some time. So in fact what we're about to introduce is admittedly one of the more complicated concepts in computing and in C in particular namely a topic called pointers. And I will say today more so than ever might feel like a bit of a fire hose. In fact, all these years later, I still remember the day in which I finally understood this topic, which was not the day of the lecture in which it was introduced, but it was in like the back right corner of the Elliot House dining hall. I was sitting down during office hours with my teaching fellow and he finally helped that light bulb go off over my head. So, if some of this feels a little arcane today, it just comes with time and with practice like everything else. So, what is a pointer? A pointer is going to be a variable that can store an address. Now, yes, that address is technically just a number, like an integer, but we distinguish between integers that we care about like 50 and things we might do math on, and a pointer, which in this case is just going to be the address of a variable uh the address of a value in memory. So, what does this mean? Well, we can start to do things like this. I can declare my variable n as before and set it equal to the value 50. But I can actually get the address of n and put that address in another variable. And that variable we now call a pointer. So P is going to be the name of this variable. It's going to store the address of N which we can get using the amperand. But there's one more piece of syntax which I promised before. This asterisk here. And the asterisk here means that this variable P stores the address of an integer, not an actual integer per se. It's weird looking syntax. It kind of looks like multiplication, but it isn't. It's just the developers of C decades ago decided to use an asterisk, even though it's admittedly nonobvious what it's doing. But in this context, when you see an asterisk right after a data type like int, it just means that the variable in question is not going to be an int per se, but an address of an integer. Okay, so let's put this to the test using a line of this code in my own file here. Let me propose that we do this. Let me go back to VS Code here. Let me introduce this additional variable int star p as it's typically pronounced. Set that equal to amperand n and then do the exact same thing as before. Let's not print out amperand n but let's actually print out the value of p itself because p is now equivalent to amperand n. So let me go back to VS Code. Let me do make addresses again. And huh, I did something wrong and stupid here. This was not meant to be the moral of the story. What did I do wrong? Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I just missed the semicolon. So, still making those mistakes here. All right. And let me clear my screen again and do make addresses. Entertresses. And now I should indeed see the address of N, I just so happen to temporarily store it this time inside of a variable called P. Now, just so you've seen it, it turns out that when using this syntax of using a star to declare a so-called pointer and amperand over here to get the address of something, you might see in online references and such different formattings of this. This is the canonical way to declare a pointer. Int space, then the star, then without a space, the name of the variable. However, it will work and you will sometimes see that the star is over here or the star is in the middle. But again, we would recommend stylistically that it just go here. Admittedly, I think it would have been clean clearer if the star were over here, making clear that it's related more to the int than it is to the variable name. But this is simply the convention. So this means, hey computer, give me a variable called p that's going to store the address of an integer. And the amperand is just saying, hey computer, tell me the address of n. And it's the compiler and computer itself that decided where to put that variable in memory. Questions. &gt;&gt; Would you get an error if you didn't put the asterisk? You would. And let's take a look. So, let me go ahead and clear my terminal. Let me go ahead and delete the star before the variable p. Now, let me go ahead and do make addresses again. And indeed, I'm getting an error. Incompatible pointer to integer conversion initializing int dot dot dot. And even though that's a lot of big words, it kind of says what it means. You're trying to go from a pointer on the right to an integer on the left, which is just not appropriate here. Yes, at the end of the day, they're all numbers, but it's more properly a pointer or an address on the right, but a little old int now incorrectly on the left. So, the fix there is just to indeed put it back. Other questions on this new syntax? Yeah. you do like &gt;&gt; indeed. To recap the question, can you use the address of operator to find the address of other data types like strings? Absolutely. And we'll do that with a couple of examples today as well. We're just using ins to keep it super simple initially. Other questions on these addresses and pointers. &gt;&gt; So we still use variables even if they're not integers. Is that right? &gt;&gt; Correct. Correct. Even if it's not an int question, we'll come back to other data types in a little bit. You're still going to use the star. That is the same syntax for everything. And yes, &gt;&gt; can you tell the computer I want to store these variables in this address? &gt;&gt; Oh yes. Can you tell the computer you want to store a variable in this address? That's where we're going in just a bit. Indeed. Now that we have the ability to find out the address of something in memory, stands to reason that we can go to that address ourselves and maybe poke around and actually put values there. And in fact, that's that's among our goals for today. So let's consider how we might get there. So here now is my canvas of memory and let me propose that the number 50 happened to get stored in the variable n down there at bottom right just because and that's probably ox123 or in reality a much larger address but it's easier and quicker for us to just pretend it's at 0x123. What is actually happening in code when I declare P and put a value there? Well, recall a moment ago I declared P to be a pointer to an integer. that is the address of an integer. So what's happening in memory is this. If n is down here and happens to be at address ox123 when I actually assign p to amperand n that just literally takes that address of n and puts it inside of p. Now p as an aside happens to be pretty big. It turns out by convention on most systems a pointer that is a variable that stores an address is actually going to be eight bytes large. It's going to be 64 bits. Why is that? Our computers have so much darn memory nowadays in the gigabytes that you need to be able to count higher than 4 billion. As an aside, if you only used 32 bits for your pointers, you could only count recall as high as 4 billion. 4 billion uh is 4 gigabytes equivalently. That would mean your computers could not have 8 gigabytes of memory, 16 gigabytes of memory. Your servers couldn't have tens of gigabytes of memories. We use 64 bits or eight bytes nowadays for pointers because our computers have that much more memory. All right. So what is Ptor Storing? Literally just an address like this. So when we wrote this code just a moment ago, what the computer did and has been doing for the past several weeks is literally just finding the location of N in memory and plopping that value inside of P which itself is taking up a bit of memory but or uh by convention more memory 8 bytes in this case. The thing is who really cares about this level of detail? Typically, as programmers, it's useful to understand what's going on, but rarely are we going to care precisely about where things are in memory. Today is really about just kind of looking at what's going on underneath the hood. So, in fact, we can abstract away most of my computer's memory, I would propose, because at the moment, all we care about is P existing and N existing. So, who really cares what else is going on? And frankly generally I am not going to care that N is at address ox123 just that it is at an address that happens to be ox123. And so the way a programmer or computer scientist when talking about design on like a whiteboard or frankly in sections and office hours on a whiteboard we rarely care what the actual addresses are. So we generally abstract the specific address away and literally represent pointers with arrows on the screen or on the whiteboard or the like. This just means that P is a variable that points to the number 50 in memory. Okay. Questions on this mental model for what a pointer is. It's a pointer in like very much the literal sense. Okay. So, if you're on board with that, let me propose that we consider now um what these things look like maybe more physically. In fact, we've we've got a couple of mailboxes here to make clear with a little metaphor that uh here is a physical representation of our variable say P labeled as such. Inside of this is presumably going to be the address of some actual value. That value at the end of the story is going to be the value of N which recall for consistency is that address ox123. So what happens when you actually try to uh locate a value in memory is analogous to sort of looking up something inside of these mailboxes which if you think of your computer's memory as hundreds or thousands of little mailboxes maybe more apartment style where you've just got rows and columns of mailboxes as opposed to individual ones for single family homes. Each of those mailboxes can contain the address of some value in memory. And so what's really happening is that if this is P, not drawn to scale because they only make mailboxes so large. Inside of P is going to be an address like ox123. And just to be dramatic since there's a big football game this weekend, uh here is a Harvard foam finger metaphorically like this pointer is like pointing at that value over there. And in fact, we're going to see as you asked a moment ago, can we actually go to an address in memory? We don't yet have the syntax for that, but we're about to. Yes, you can. And in fact, if I follow what I'm pointing at, open up this location in memory, voila, there is the 50 in question. So, anytime we're talking about values or we're talking about the addresses thereof, you can think of it analogously as being like physical mailboxes, one of which might contain a useful number like 50, one of which might contain the address of that value. And we now have the syntax we'll see to actually go from one to the other. Let me actually go back into VS code here which in the most recent version of my program what I was doing was getting the address of N and storing it in P and then I was literally printing out P itself and that's when we saw the big hexodimal number that is generally not useful but it's maybe interesting to see that one time. Let me instead though introduce another use of that star or asterisk operator that allows us as was asked a moment ago to actually go to that address. So in this version of my program, I'm going to keep N equal to 50. I'm going to keep P equal to the address of N. But what I'm now going to do is show you how syntactically I can print out not P, but N, but by using P, following the proverbial uh foam finger metaphor by printing out percent I back slashN and printing out N instead. Now, obviously, I could cheat and just say N and print out N like in version one, but that doesn't really demonstrate anything interesting here. However, if I only have P at this point in the story, it turns out you can use the star for another purpose. If you simply prefix your variable name with a star, that is the so-called now dreference operator, which means go to the address in P. So if I now open up my terminal here, do make addresses for this version, then dot / addresses and enter, I now get back the number 50. So what's really happening in line five, as has been true for several weeks now, we have a variable called n being initialized to the number 50. Then on my next line six, I'm declaring p as an address of some value, an integer specifically, and putting the address of n in there exactly. And then on line seven, I'm actually saying print out an integer percent I as we've done for weeks. But what integer? Go to the address in P and print out what you find there. So that's equivalent again to the the foam finger which is over there pointing at the address I actually want to point print out instead. Okay. So usefulness. Well, I think we can get there by taking a look at one of our little white lies that we've been telling. In fact, let's turn our attention to strings, which up until now have been a sequence of characters in the computer's memory. A string is a thing in programming more generally, but in C, it technically doesn't exist by this name. But you can still use strings in C, but just not by calling them str iing as the actual data type. But let's let's start with our familiar code here. Let me go into addresses.c. Let me add our trading wheels in for now and include cs50.h because in this version of my addresses program, what I want to do is declare a string s and I'm going to set it equal to high exclamation point. Then as we did in week one, let's go ahead and print out with percent s back slashn that value of s. So nothing new, nothing interesting here. So let me just do it quickly and do make addresses then dot /resses and we see hi on the screen. So that has all been something we've been taking for granted. But let's consider what is going on underneath the hood of even that program. So the string we've declared in memory exists somewhere in the computer's canvas of memory. So string s equals high might end up somewhere down here. And I'm going to stop drawing all of the boxes when not necessary. But here we have hi exclamation point. And as we discussed two weeks ago, the null character and ul which just means the string stops here. So as a quick refresher, even though the word is three characters, it takes up how many bytes? Four. always because you need that null terminator. All right, so maybe that string could be accessed then by its name S. And we've seen this before. S bracket zero is the first character. S bracket 1 2 and then if you want to poke around, you can go into S bracket 3, but you'll probably see quote unquote null on the screen or the compiler will sort of the computer will sort of remind you that you don't really want to look there at that point. So, three characters accessible via this array syntax. But we know now that everything in the computer's memory is addressable. And maybe that H just so happened to end up at ox123 and the i ends up at ox124 125 126 respectively. Doesn't matter what these numbers are, but because strings are sequences of characters back to back up to back in memory, it must be the case that these addresses are themselves contiguous back to back to back without gaps inside of them. That's how a string has always been stored in memory. It's just an array of characters. All right, so with that said, what really is S? We've thought of S in every program we've used strings in before as just a string. Like that is the sequence of characters or really it's the name of an array. But that's a bit of a white lie because what S really is is going to be a more specific value. Take a guess what is actually going to be the value in S. &gt;&gt; Yeah, the address of if I may that array. So we've got like sort of four possible answers here. A, B, C, and D. Multiple choice. Which of those numbers probably makes sense to store in the variable called S in order to get to this string? What what is S's value? &gt;&gt; 0x123 is correct. So we don't talk about this in like week one because like it's already hard to like remember semicolons in week one. Like god forbid start thinking about like what these specific addresses are. S is a string. S. But technically S is and has been since week one a pointer. The address of an array of characters in memory. The address specifically of the first character in memory which is sufficient. Why? Because of this null terminating convention that we talked about weeks ago that tells the computer where the string ends. The pointer tells the computer where the string begins. And that's how you get using just numbers, zeros and ones inside of a computer to store something as interesting as an actual string. So in fact, let's make let's take a closer look at this. In fact, let me go into uh VS Code again and just for the sake of discussion, let me declare S as before, but instead of printing out uh the whole string at once, let's go ahead and do this. print f uh quote unquote percent p back slashn and then let's print out s itself initially to see whether it's actually o x123 or presumably a much bigger number then after that let's print out another pointer another address rather percent p back slashna and now I'd like to print out the address of the first character of s but let's let's not get ahead of ourselves let me go ahead and make addresses n dot /resses. Okay, there now in this high program is the address at which the string itself is stored. ox 5a7143027004. So bigger than ox123. Well, let's now poke around. What if I were to do this? What if I want to print out the address of how about the first character in that string? Well, at the moment, recall that s bracket zero is literally the first character. That is a char. So with what syntax could I get the address of the first character? Well, we haven't learned all that much that's new today. It's just a single amperand that will get me the address of that character. If I do this for the next character, I can see one after another. And in fact, this is going to have four characters in total, including the null character. So let me copy paste, which is generally frowned upon, but not for a lecture demo because we're just trying to do this quickly. Let's print out the address of S itself. and then more specifically the address of S's first character, the address of S's second character, third, and the address of that null terminator. All right, let's go back into make addresses. Let me go ahead and clear my terminal and dot slash addresses. And we see if I zoom in on my terminal here, the following. S itself contains ox 56199 bd00004. And the address of the first character in S, aka S bracket zero, is exactly the same thing. The next character, the I in high is one bite away. The exclamation point is one more bite away. And the null terminator is one more bite away. So again, bigger numbers, but the point is these are indeed just the actual addresses of all of these characters in memory. All right, let me pause for any questions here. Yeah, &gt;&gt; why do you need a reference specific but not S? &gt;&gt; Good question. Why do I need the amperand before the specific characters in S but not S itself? Think what S actually is. I'm claiming for the moment that S itself is the address of that whole string which just so happens by design to be equivalent to the address of the first character because that is the convention humans came up with decades ago to represent a string. Now you might think that you need the address of every character in the string. But no, that's why humans decades ago decided to just terminate every string in memory with the backslash zero or null terminator because if you give me the beginning of the string and the end, I can obviously with a loop find everything else in between. Other questions? No. All right. Well, what is then this actual thing in memory? Well, it turns out that S is yes, a string as we've been describing it. It turns out that yes, S is a string as we've been describing it all this time. But technically, I think we're ready to reveal what little white lie we've been telling or if you will, what abstraction S actually is in the CS50 library. The type you know as string since week one all this time has simply been a synonym for char star s this is where maybe so what does this really mean well we saw instar p earlier here we're seeing char star s but what does that really mean well s is the name of the variable and yes it's a string but what is it really s is the address of a char and so in week one of the course in the actual CS50 50 library. We've told this little white lie by just creating a synonym in the library that makes char star so to speak the exact same thing as string s t r i n g just so that we don't have to think about this level of detail let alone hexodimal notation and addresses and pointers and dreferencing and all of this complexity in the first weeks of the course. It simply abstracts away what the char what a string actually is. And in fact we've seen this technique before in a more complicated way. In fact, if you recall a couple lectures uh last week, we actually claimed that you could create a phone book for instance using uh persons and persons have names and numbers and we created our own type by saying type defaf and that type was a whole structure which is the complexity part a structure containing a name and a number and we gave that data type ultimately the keyword person. So we've already invented in class our own makebelieve data types to create things that didn't come with C itself like a person. Well, the strruct is very specific to what we were trying to do with the phone book, but typed defaf is more generally useful because it literally allows you to define your own type. So, for instance, if we wanted to create an synonym for int because we never remember what it is and call it integer instead, you could simply say type def int. And that would create in your programming environment a data type called integer that is literally equivalent to int. Now, this is not all that useful. So instead in the CS50 library, we do use typed defaf to tell the computer that charar should instead be spelled as string semicolon. And that just means that string ever after is the same thing as saying char star. So all of this time since week one, I could have been doing exactly that if I wanted. And in fact, if I go back to VS Code here, let's simplify this quite a bit and go back to the very first version of the program wherein I use percent s and just print it out s is value itself, the string high. Well, this of course is going to work as always as follows. It's just going to print out high on the screen. But now, if I get rid of the CS50 library and try to recompile this, notice we'll get an error that I think I've seen before. Here we have if I scroll up to the very first line use of undeclared identifier string did I mean standard in and no I don't and no I didn't a couple weeks ago when I accidentally did that but it the compiler does not know about the keyword string at the moment. Well that's fine even if I don't have the CS50 library installed on this computer. I can just get rid of the word string which is a concept but not a keyword in C and just rename it to char star. And now in my terminal window, I can do make addresses again, dot slash addresses, and voila, we're back in business with no CS50 training wheels whatsoever because printf knows given a char star, go to that address, print, print, print, print until you get to the null terminator, and then stop printing. There's a loop in there that does exactly that. questions on char star or what a string actually now is. &gt;&gt; Yeah. In front. &gt;&gt; Good question. How does print f know to keep going until it gets to the null? the format code because I've been using percent s which means print a string instead of percent c which means print a single character print fc is that percent s and it was like oh I should use a loop to print out all of the characters until the null terminator if I instead passed in just percent c it would stop after a single character &gt;&gt; okay that makes sense &gt;&gt; other questions &gt;&gt; good question why Why don't I dreference S in order to print it out? So, let me try that for just a moment here. Why do I not have to now or any week prior do S here? Because after all, if S is the string, I want to go to the string and print it out. Well, the first answer is that print f is doing this for you because it's being handed the address and it is going to the address for you. So, that star is somewhere in print f's implementation. But this is also incorrect conceptually because yes s is the string but more technically today s is the address of the first character in the string. So I really want to provide print f in this case with the address not the specific character because I want it to treat it as a string not a single character indeed. So I could use the percent s if I change to percent uh I could use star s if I change to percent c to print out the single character. All right. So let's play around just syntactically for just a moment here in VS code. Let me propose that we still use charst star s here and then just demonstrate exactly what's going on. So I'll do exactly what was just asked. So I'll use percent c and then I'm going to go ahead and print out for now our old week 2 syntax treating s as an array. So s bracket zero, s bracket one and s bracket 2. And I'm using some copy paste just for time sake. This of course is not going to do anything all that interesting, but it is going to demonstrate that indeed we have h i exclamation point back to back to back in memory. And if I really want um I could print it all on one line by getting rid of of course those new lines. But what more can I do with this syntax? Well, I could take literally the fact that s is the address of the first character in memory. So instead of using this array notation which we introduced in week two, I could technically go to the address of S. Why? Well, S is the address of the first character of the string. Star S means go to that address. And voila, you're at the first character by definition of what S is. So I could print out the first character using star S instead of S brackets zero. How could I do this? Well, here's where we can actually take advantage of the fact that pointers and addresses more generally are in fact numbers and you can actually do arithmetic on pointers themselves. In other words, there is a concept known as pointer arithmetic which means given an address, you can add to it, subtract to it. Heck, you could even multiply or divide. Even though that would probably be weird in most cases, we could certainly add numbers to an address. So for instance, if I want to print out the second character of S, that's kind of equivalent to going to S but then moving over one character. So maybe I should do a little bit of pointer arithmetic and do S + 1 in parenthesis just so that like in math class we uh do order of operations correctly. And then down here I could go to S again. But wait a minute, I want to go to S plus two characters away or two bytes away. So now I can do make addresses down here. Oh, and I did mess up. Oh, new mistake. Unintentional. Yep, I forgot my parenthesis on the very end here. So that was just user error. Make addresses again dot sladdresses. And now I indeed see h i exclamation point one more time using pointer arithmetic instead of our familiar array notation. So what is that array notation? It's what we would generally call syntactic sugar, which is a very weird way of saying like it's just nicer syntax. Like no one wants to write code that looks like this. It sort of, you know, bends the mind a little bit to read and parse all of this visually. Just s bracket zero is much more straightforward. But what it's really doing is this. And the computer is essentially converting that bracket notation for us into this more esoteric but correct version instead. All right. What else can I do? Well, just for fun, for some definition of fun, let's go ahead and print out three different strings. And recall that a string is a sequence of characters that starts at some address. So, let's first print out the sequence of characters that starts at s. Let's next print out the sequence of characters that starts at s+ one. And let's lastly print out the string that starts at s+ 2. Just playing around with the definition of what these pointers are. Let me do make addresses. And oh, not my day. What did I forget? Semicolon. So if it happens to you, it happens to me, too. Make addresses dot sladdresses. And now this one's going to be a little curious. But I see hi I and just exclamation point. Why? Because I'm treating a string literally as what it is, a sequence of characters, but I'm giving print f the address of the first character initially, then of the second character, then of the third. But all three of those statements work because all three of them happen to be terminated by the same null character. Even though I and the exclamation point alone was not really my intention, that doesn't stop me from being able to do it nonetheless. All right. Well, let's do one other maybe uh application of this idea. Let me propose that. Let me propose that we take a look at our computer's memory here and let's suppose that we want to start uh comparing values because in week one we did a lot of that and we even in week zero we did a lot of that with if and else if and else and so forth. So let's make this a little more real and also reveal why last week we had to solve a unexpected problem using another string function namely stir comp str cmp. So here for instance are two arbitrary variables in memory I and J and I gave them both the value of 50 and maybe they indeed end up there each of them taking up four bytes. Last time recall that we weren't able to compare two values in memory just by using the equal equal operator unless those values last time were actually integers. In fact let's do that. Let me go back into VS Code here. close out addresses and let's code up maybe another version of my compare program from last uh from the past. This time I am going to use the CS50 library just to keep things simple initially. I'm going to include both it and the standard IO library here. I'm going to give myself main with no command line arguments. And then in main I'm going to declare exactly what we just saw on the screen. A variable I set to 50, a variable J set to 50. And then we're going to do our old familiar syntax from week one. If I equals equals J, then let's go ahead and print out something like same back slashn. Else, let's go ahead and print out quote unquote uh different back slashn. So super simple program that simply compares two variables that yes are obviously going to be the same, but let's do this. So let's do make compare dot /compare. They're in fact the same. Okay, so that actually works as intended. But why didn't it work last time when we tried comparing strings? The solution to which was actually to introduce stir comp. Well, let's go back to VS Code and resurrect that buggy example initially. In fact, let me go into VS code here and instead of using say integers, let's go ahead and do this. And I'll rename them just by convention. So my first string will be quote unquote uh let's do my first string will be whatever get string gives me. So we'll prompt the user for s. My next string will be called T by convention and I'm going to ask the user for that. Then down here, instead of using I and J, which are common for integers, I'm just going to use S and T, which are common for strings, and just ask literally the same question as we have in the past. All right, let me go ahead and do make uh compare and wow, what's the error? Well, I'll show you the error message. What did I unintentionally do wrong here? Yeah, I'm getting a string, but I'm trying to store it into an int. So, this is just frowned upon. So, let me go ahead and change that to what I should have typed the first time. Give me a string s and a string t. Now, if I do make compare, we're back in business. All right, let me do dot /compare. And I'm going to go ahead and type in, for instance, uh let's say hi exclamation point and high exclamation point, both for S&amp;T, which are obviously clearly different. Now, we've tripped over this before and recall that the solution was indeed to introduce a function called stir comp. And I explained at a high level. Well, that's because you're not just comparing two values. You got to compare character after character after character. And that's what indeed stir comp does. So, let's go ahead and do that. Let me go back into this file. Let's go ahead and include the string library at the top here. And instead of doing s= t, let's do if the string comparison of s and t happens to equal equals zero, which per the documentation for the function means they're equal instead of one before or one after the other. No, I did not get it wrong this time. I caught it. Um, yes. So, how do we actually go ahead and compare the strings this time? Well, let me go ahead and do make compare dot /compare. And now type in exactly the same thing. Hi exclamation point. Hi exclamation point. And now they're in fact the same. And just to demonstrate that this isn't just some fluke, I can type in hi for instance and buy. And those are in fact different. So clearly stir comp is doing something useful. But what is it actually doing? Well, first of all, let's make clear that what was a string last week is technically a char star this week. So I can remove that training wheel. I'm still going to include the CS50 library because as we'll see by the end of class today, get string and get int and all of those get functions from CS50 are actually still useful because it's a pain in the neck in C still to get user input without using functions like those. But I'm going to get rid of the data type that we thought was called string. This will still work exactly as before. If I do make compare dot /compare and type in high and high, we're indeed seeing that they are now the same. So, what's actually going on inside of the computer's memory with strings? Well, I would offer that S probably ends up like over here in memory. And then maybe it actually has its characters down here. So, notice the duality. S as of now, is an address, which means it takes up eight bytes or 64 bits, but the actual characters, it turns out, end up somewhere else in the computer's memory. And this is what's different about an int. The int i and the int j both ended up exactly where the variables were named. But with strings, the variable itself contains not the string, but the address of the first character in that string, which I claim could end up anywhere else in the computer's memory. So that those addresses might be ox123, 1 124,125, and 126 for instance. Meanwhile, S is going to contain literally the address of that first character. When I create T in memory now, it ends up maybe over there taking up eight bytes of its own down here ends up the second thing that I typed in not at the same address but at ox456 457 458 459. Now if the computer were really smart and generous, it could probably notice, oh wait a minute, you typed that thing in already. Let me just point you at the other memory. But that's not how it works. When you call get string, you get your own chunk of memory for whatever the human typed in. Even if by coincidence it's exactly the same. So T's characters are ending up here. S's characters are ending up here. What value should go in T? &gt;&gt; Exactly 0x456 because that's the first uh address of the first character in T. So we put ox456 there. So at this point in the story, we have two strings in memory and two pointers there too. And so in fact, if we kind of abstract that away, it's kind of equivalent to S pointing at the chunk of memory on the left and T pointing at the chunk of memory on the right. So why was string comparison actually necessary? Well, in this case, we wanted to make sure that the stir comp function was handed the address of S and the address of T. So that the stir comp function written by someone else decades ago actually has its own for loop or while loop that essentially starts at the beginning of each string and compares them character by character by character by character. That's what it's designed to do. By contrast, when I was using equal equals a few minutes ago and also last week incorrectly to compare strings, what was getting compared? Well, if you literally compare s= t, that's like saying, does o x123 equal equal ox456? And that's obviously not true because those are literally two different addresses. So, the answer I was getting last week and today was correct. Those addresses are different. But conceptually of course I actually intended for the program to compare the actual characters in the string not the uh simply the addresses thereof. So how do we go about fixing something like that? Well using stir comp ensures that we can actually go ahead and compare them character by character and I don't need to create my own for loop or y loop. The stir comp function does that for me. And we can see this too. If I go back to VS Code here, get those two strings and just for kicks, go ahead and print them both out using print f of percent p back slashn. Then let's go ahead and print out with percent uh p again back slashn for each of them passing in those variables s and t respectively. What I should see that even if I type the exact same thing, we're going to see two different addresses when I make this version of the program. Here's my first high. Here's my second. And the two addresses are it's subtle very much different. The first one ends in B 0. The second one ends in F0. Both of which are hexadimal values. Question on any of that thus far? Any qu? Oh yeah, question in front. Yeah. What's that? &gt;&gt; Really good question. When you create a pointer in memory or really when you allocate a string or an integer in memory, how does the computer decide where to put it? It uses different chunks of memory for different purposes. And in fact, one of the topics we'll look at after break today is exactly that. How a computer decides where to lay things out. It's often very intentional and it is often auto incremented. So they'll go back to back to back when possible, but over time things will start to get messier, especially in larger programs where you're adding and subtracting values from memory all the time. So more to come. Other questions on what we have done here. All right, before we break, let's do one other example that elucidates perhaps what can go wrong without understanding some of these underlying building blocks. whereby let's go ahead and create a program this time that aspires to copy two strings, which seems pretty reasonable at a glance because it's certainly easy to copy two integers. You just set one equal to the other, but that's not going to be the case, it turns out, with copying a string. So, let me open up how about uh copy C, a new program, and I'm going to include a few libraries at the top. We'll use CS50.h so that we can still use get string conveniently. We're going to include uh cype.h for reasons we'll soon see, but we saw that a few weeks back. We'll include standard IO as always. And lastly, we'll include string.h inside of my main function, which won't take any command line arguments. Let's go ahead as before and declare a string equal to get string and just prompt the user for a variable s. Then let's go ahead and try to copy uh s into a new variable t just like I would copy any two variables using the assignment operator. Then let's treat the copy otherwise known as T now as an array which we're allowed to do per week 2. So let's say the first character in T we actually want to set equal to the uppercase version of that same character. So this line 12 at the moment is literally on the right hand side saying use the two upper function from the cype library which we used a couple weeks back. Pass in the first character of the copy T and then update the actual first character of T. So let's capitalize T but not S. Now at the very bottom of this program, let's go ahead and print out the value of S at this point in time. And then let's print out the value of T at this point in time. And when I go ahead and make this program called copy and dot /copy, let's type in high exclamation point. Uh no, let's do it lowerase first. Let's do high in lowercase. Enter. And we'll see curiously that S and T both got capitalized even though the only character I touched was T bracket zero. I didn't touch S after making this copy. Now to be clear what's going on? Why don't we remove one of these training wheels? So string really doesn't technically exist. It's always been a char star. And this string is also a char star. So what's really going on? Well, more clearly now S is the address of the string uh that the human typed in. But T is a copy of what? Literally the address of the thing the human typed in which is going to be one and the same. So in fact pictorially you can think about it this way. If here is my canvas of memory and the user is prompted for S and the user types in high in lowercase as I did and it happens to end up down there. what gets stored in S is going to be the address of that memory which for the sake of discussion is maybe ox123. So ox123 is what is stored in S. When I then on my second line of code create T, I get another eight bytes of memory or 64 bits to store a pointer charar aka string. But what is put in S? What is put in T? Literally S o X123. So abstractly it's essentially equivalent to S and T both pointing to the same chunk of memory. So when I do t bracket zero and go to the zeroth or first character of t, that happens to be the exact same chunk of memory that s is pointing to. And so when that lowercase h becomes a capital h, it's as though both s and t have changed. And recall too, if you're enjoying the syntax, if I go back to VS code here, I did use array notation, but I equivalently could have said go to the address in t. go to the address of that first character which functionally is exactly the same. We're just not using the syntactic sugar now of the square brackets. That is why hi is actually being capitalized for seemingly both versions of it. The original and the copy. So how do we go about fixing this? Well, we need a couple of new solutions, namely two new functions here. Maloc is going to be a function that allocates memory. So memory allocation aka maloc. and then free which is going to be the opposite which is when you're done with new memory you can hand it back to the computer and say use this for something else. So using these two functions alone I dare say we can solve now this problem in memory by making an actual conceptual copy of the string by copying hi exclamation point and the null character elsewhere in memory so that we can actually manipulate the copy thereof. So how do I do this? Well, let me go back to VS Code here. Let me propose that we get rid of much of what we did earlier except we'll keep around the declaration of S. But now if I want to create a copy of S, it turns out I'm going to need to ask the computer for as much memory as S itself takes up. So hi exclamation point takes up how many bytes in memory? Four is correct because you need the null character. So how do we figure this out? You can do this. Let me give myself another string called T. But we don't need that white lie anymore. Another char star called t and set it equal to not s which we knew was going to go wrong. Set it equal to the return value of this new function maloc which is going to return the address of a chunk of memory for me. How many bytes do I want? Well, technically I just want four bytes. So I could do maloc of four. And that will literally ask the operating system running in the cloud in VS Code for four bytes of memory somewhere in that black and yellow grid I keep drawing on the screen. I don't know where it's going to be, but I don't care because Maloc's return value will be the address of the first bite thereof. Now, it's a little dumb to hardcode four, not knowing what the human's going to type in, but that's okay. We can do this more dynamically and use our old friend Sterling, ask the computer, what is the length of S? and then add one because we know that we need to additionally have an extra bite even though the length of high in the real world is three but we know underneath the hood we actually need that fourth bite hence the plus one. Now to use maloc I actually need to add another library here standard lib for standard library.h and that's going to give me access to the prototype for and in turn the maloc function. Now with this chunk of memory, it's up to me to copy the string. So how do I go about copying a string from S into T? Well, I can do this in a bunch of ways, but let me propose that we do it like this. For int i equals zero, i is less than the string length of s, whatever that is, i ++. And then inside of this fairly mundane loop, let's just set the uh i value of t equal to the i value of s and copy literally very mechanically every character from s into t. Then down here, let's go ahead and capitalize just the first character of t by using two upper as before with or without the syntactic sugar. And then at the very bottom of this program, let's print out the value of S itself just for good measure to make sure we didn't screw it up this time. And let's print out the value of T just so we see that I in fact have capitalized T and only T. But I'm not quite done yet. There's a design flaw here and a mistake, but it's subtle. Does anyone want to pluck off one or the other? Check 50 and design 50 are not going to like this. Yeah. We don't actually pop over the like terminating character of the string. &gt;&gt; Yes, because Sterling always returns the sort of real world length of the string. Hi exclamation point 3. This would seem to accidentally forget to copy the null character. So I can fix this in a few different ways. I could for instance at the bottom of my loop actually do something like t bracket 4 equals single quotes back/z and manually terminate it myself because I know it's got to end with a null character. This would be frowned upon too. I shouldn't be hard coding the four. This is all too sloppy. So don't do this. What I could instead do is say go up to and through the length of S because if the length of S is three, but I use less than or equal to that thing's going to iterate of course four times because I'm starting at zero as always. So that I think fixes that problem. But now the design flaw which is subtle but we've seen it before. Yeah. Exactly. It's just dumb of me to be length of s and every iteration. So this is why we introduced this trick where you can set another integer variable like n equal to that string length and then after the semicolon just keep comparing i against n which means you're not calling functions wastefully as before. All right if I didn't mess up anything else let me go into my terminal. Let me do uh oh did I mess something up? I still Yes, I did mess something up. I should have put this back as well. Thank you. All right. So, let's go ahead and do make copy. Enter dot /copy. And now I'm going to go ahead and type in hi in all lowercase and hit enter. And you'll see now that s is unchanged. It's printed out again in lowercase, but t is in fact capitalized here. Now, why is this? Well, in this case, what's happened is that I've got S in memory, but this time when I allocate T, I then use Maloc to get a whole chunk of memory here that initially just contains who knows what garbage values as we've called them before. I'll just leave them as blank here, but it happens to be for the sake of discussion at ox456 7 8 and 9. When then I actually set t equal to the return value of maloc, it's as though t is just pointing to this chunk of memory. Then in my own loop when I go from zero on up through n that just means to copy the h then the i then the exclamation point and because of the equal sign also print uh copy the null character instead. So this is getting a little tedious though admittedly like this is a lot of work just to copy a couple of strings. Could we be doing this a little bit better? So we actually can because of the libraries we're including. Turns out there's functions for copying strings that come with C. So in fact if I go back to VS code here I don't actually need any of this for loop here so long as I have actually allocated enough memory for this string which I do think I've had. I can actually use literally a function called stir copy strcpy for short and pass in the destination and the source in that order. Almost feels a little backwards but that's the way it's done to copy s's bytes into t. It's easy to mess them up, but don't mess them up. Per the documentation, the destination comes first and then the source string instead. So, if I do this now, let's do make copy. We're good to go. Uh, if I do dot /copy now and type in high and all lowercase, we still have preserved that good property. But let me propose that things can go wrong. And in fact, this is about to make the program look way more complicated than feels ideal. But I've been a little lazy here. There's a bunch of things that can go wrong for which it's worth knowing about the return values of these here functions. So all of this time it has been possible for certain functions we've been using get string among them to return confusingly this null value null. Again humans decades ago decided that one would be called null. Other humans decided this new thing would be called null. N UL pronounced null is just the null terminator back/zero. It is a single bite of eight bits all of which are zeros. That's been true for a few weeks now. NL happens to be a special memory address literally ox0 at which nothing is supposed to ever live. So whenever I describe the top left corner as this is address zero, this is one, this is two. Humans years ago decided, you know what, let's just waste bite location zero and never put anything there so that we have a special value to ensure that we can signal when something has gone wrong. So humans just decided don't use memory address ox specifically and a few bytes after it. So what does this mean? Well, in my code all this time and since week one, frankly, things could have gone wrong. So in VS Code here, I'm using get string and I'm using Maloc and I'm using stir copy and um all of these print statements here, but I'm not actually adding as many error checks as I should. So it turns out if you read the actual documentation for get string, which in fairness we never told you about until now, in cases of error, get string can return null. Why would it ever have an error if the human types in such a large paragraph of text maybe that there's no room in the computer's memory for everything they've typed in? Well, you don't want to just get back part of the text and not know that something went wrong. Get string is designed to return a special sentinel value null in all caps. That just means I can't oblige. I can't return you a correct value. Here's an error instead. So what I should always have been doing since week one but we consciously don't because it adds just too much overhead is check if s equals equals null then we should abort the program altogether and for instance like return one as we've done before to just signify error like we cannot proceed because get string did not work that is true of maloc 2 technically we should say if the address in t also equals null that is ox0 we should also return one because something uh went wrong. So, let's do this one more time. Turns out that even two upper is taking for granted the fact that the humans typed in anything at all. What if the human just types enter? Well, that's a valid string. It's the so-called empty string, quote unquote. But what is the length of nothing? It's going to be zero. And that's problematic because if you try to go to T at the first location, what is actually there? Well, that's actually the null character, which is not something you should even try to capitalize, it would seem. So, what we should really do here, too, is check only if the sterling of S is greater than zero should you even bother uppercasing that first character. I mean, one, at best, it makes no sense because if there's no string, there's nothing to uppercase. At worst, I could break something by touching memory that I should not. And if I may, there's another issue. Now, on line 15, I'm asking the computer for memory, and it's going to hand me those four bytes. But technically, I'm never giving them back. And so, even though this program is so short that it's going to quit pretty soon, and it's not a big deal, the computer will automatically reclaim that memory in longunning programs that like servers or things that are running for a long time. If you use Maloc and ask for memory, but never give it back to the computer, never free it, so to speak, your computer might get slower and slower and slower and slower essentially because it's running out of memory. Not physically, but the computer thinks it's using all of its memory even if it's not actively in use. You as the human know best. And so at the end of this program when I am completely done with T, you should similarly call free of T passing in the address that you allocated previously so that the operating system gets that memory back. If you don't do that, it's what's called a memory leak. If you've ever used a Mac program, a Windows program, an iPhone or Android program that somehow is just getting slower and slower and slower and slower, that is often a symptom of a human having messed up and not freeing memory that they don't actually need anymore. Questions on null or any of these kinds of checks? No. All right. Well, as a teaser, in just a bit, we're going to reveal when and why things can go terribly wrong by way of a little bit of claimation from our friends at Stanford, but feels like we're long past a good uh snack break. So, why don't we go ahead and have some oranges and some fruit snacks, and we'll see you in 10. All right, we are back. So, with memory, a lot of things can go wrong. And in fact, a question came up during the break about whether or not I should have also called free on s, which was the string that I actually got back from get string. The short answer is no. This has been a deliberate choice over the past several weeks whereby the implementation by CS50 of get string automatically frees memory that it has given to you once it is no longer needed. So that's a bit of magic underneath the hood once those train once you no longer use that though that feature goes away. But because I actually used maloc to get my memory for t I did have to free that specific memory. So the rule of thumb quite simply is if you maloclocked it you must free it. If we get string malocked it, you do not have to free it yourself. But of course, things can go wrong. And thankfully, there are tools via which we can find memory related errors. And one thing we're going to show you briefly is another tool called Valgrren, which is a nice complement to something like debug 50 and print f and the duck for actually chasing down specifically in this case memory related errors. So in fact, let me go over to VS Code and open up a program I wrote in advance because it's just not all that useful, but it is demonstrative of some things that can go wrong. And in memory.c we have this code here. We include standard IO.h and we include standard lib.h the latter of which recall is necessary now when you want to use maloc and in turn free. And inside of this main function I'm doing a few things. I am first allocating three integers in kind of an interesting way because it turns out that maloc takes as its argument the number of bytes