main is an int because that is what gives the computer its so-called exit status which is zero if all is well or anything other than zero if something went wrong but I think finding the number counts as all is well but if we get through that whole loop and we still haven't printed found or return zero I think we can go ahead and safely say not found back slashn and then let's just return one as our exit status to indicate that we didn't find the actual number. So in short I think and see this is linear search. Let me open up my terminal window again. Let me make search enter. Let me do / search enter. And I'll search for as I asked Jose the number 50. And we indeed found it at the end. Let me go ahead and rerun dot slash search. And let's search for the other number at the beginning 20. That then works. And just to get crazy, let's search for a number we know not to be there like a th00and. And that in fact is not found. So I think we have an implementation then of linear search. But let me pause here and ask if there's any questions with this here code and the translation of algorithm to see. Yeah, in the back why I did not specify the length of the array. So it is not necessary when declaring an array and setting it equal to some known values in advance to specify in the square brackets how many you have because like the compiler is not an idiot. It can literally count the numbers inside of the curly braces and just infer that value. You could put it there, but arguably you're opening up the possibility that you're going to miscount and you're going to put seven here but eight numbers over there or six numbers there. So it's best not to tempt fate and just let the compiler do its thing instead. A good question. Other questions on this code so far? All right, if none, let's go ahead and maybe convert this linear search to one that's maybe a little more interesting that involves like searching for strings of text. After all, we started the class in week zero by searching for names in a phone book like John Harvard. Let's see if we can't adapt our code for searching for strings instead of integers. So, in my code here, let's go ahead and delete everything inside of main just to give myself a clean canvas. Let me go ahead and give me another array. This one called, let's just call it strings, cuz that's the goal of this exercise. And set them equal to some familiar pieces from the game of Monopoly if you might have played. So, there's like a battleship piece in there, there's a boot in there, there's a cannon in there, an iron, a thimble, and a top hat. Though, it does vary nowadays based on the addition that you have. So kind of a long array, but I have 1 2 3 4 5 six total values in this array of strings. Now let's ask the user for a string. We'll call it s for short. And say with get string, what string are you looking for among those six? Then I think we can do an a for loop again for int i= 0 i less than 6 i ++. And then inside of this loop, let's do the same thing. If uh let's say uh strings bracket i equals equals the string s that the human typed in. I think we can go ahead and say print found back slashn and then as before return zero to signify success. And if we don't after that whole for loop let's print print f not found back slashn down here and return one to signify error. So, it's really the same thing at the moment, except that I'm actually using strings instead of integers. All right, let me go ahead and open up my terminal window again and clear it. Let me go ahead and recompile this code. Make search.c seems to compile. Okay, let me do dot / search and let's go ahead and search for the first one. How about battleship enter? Huh, not found. All right. Well, let's maybe typo. Maybe let me search for something easier to spell. boot not found. That's weird. Both of those are at the very start of the array. Let's do dot slarch again and search for top hat. Enter. Not found. What is going on? Well, this isn't actually that obvious as to what I'm doing wrong. But it turns out that when we actually compare strings instead of integers in C, we're actually going to have to use this other library, at least today, that we saw briefly last week. Last week we introduced it because of a function called sterling which gives us the length of a string. Turns out that string.h also comes per its documentation with another useful function called stir comp for string compare and its purpose in life is to actually compare two strings left and right to make sure they are in fact the same. So for today's purposes suffice it to say you cannot use equals equals apparently to compare two strings intuitively. Why is that? Well, for a computer, it's super easy to compare two integers because they're either there or they're not in memory. But with a string, it's not just a character and another character. It's like seven a few characters over here and a few characters over here. Maybe it's a few, maybe it's more. You have to compare each and every character in a string to make sure they're in fact the same. So, stir compare does exactly that. probably in the implementation of stir comp from like years ago someone wrote a while loop or a for loop that looks at each string left to right and compares each and every one of the characters therein and then gives us back an answer. So how do we go about using this? Well to use stir compare what I can actually do in VS code here is go and change my code as follows. Instead of using equals equals I'm going to actually use this function per its documentation. I'm going to call stir compare. Then I'm going to pass in one of the strings which is in strings bracket I. Then I'm going to pass in the second string which is S. However, having read the documentation and this is a little non-obvious. It turns out that stir comp will return zero if the strings are equal. Otherwise, it's going to return a positive number or a negative number. So what I care about for now is does the return value of stir comp when given those two strings give me back zero. If so, they are equal and I'm going to say quote unquote found. So, let's go ahead and open the terminal again. Let me go ahead and clear it and do make search to recompile my code. And huh, I've done something wrong. Let's see. Let me scroll up to the very first line. In line 11, error call to undeclared library function stir comp with type in and something something which gets more complicated after that. Why is line 11 not working despite what I just preached? Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. I just did something stupid. I didn't include the string.h header library. So all clang, our compiler, is doing when invoked by make is it's encountering literally the word stir comp and not knowing what it is because we haven't taught it what it is by simply saying include string.h at the top. Okay, let me reopen my terminal window. Clear that message away. Do make search again. Now it's compiling. Dot / search. Enter. Now I'm going to go ahead and search as I did before for battleship. Ah, now it's finding it. Let me run dot slash search again. Search for boot. Ah, okay, that's found. Let me go ahead and search for top hat. That too is in there. Let me go ahead and search for something that's not there, like the number 50. Not in fact found. So I think we've actually fixed that there problem. But if we go back to this code for a moment, it's indeed the case per the documentation that equals equals 0 is what I want to do. Why in the world would stir comp be designed to return a positive or a negative number too? It's not returning true or false. It's returning one of three possible values. Zero, negative, or positive. Why might it be useful? Yeah. &gt;&gt; Um you could kind of like compare which of the strings is like greater. &gt;&gt; Yeah, super clever. So, if you're passing in two strings, it's great to know if they're equal. But wouldn't it be nice if this same function could also help us sort these strings ultimately and tell me which one comes first alphabetically. And technically, it's not going to be alphabetically. It's going to be a cute phrase asetically because it's actually going to look at the asky values of the characters and do some quick arithmetic and tell you which one comes first and which one comes later, which is enough as we'll eventually see for actually sorting these strings as well. So in short, the documentation will tell me that I should check not only for zero if I care about equality, but if I care about inequality, that is checking if one comes first or last, I should check whether something is less than zero or greater than. But for this demonstration implementing linear search, I don't care about comparing them uh for inequality. All I care about is that they are in fact the same or not in this case. All right. All right. Well, let's go ahead and do one other example of sort of linear search, but let's make the problem more like that actually in week zero of searching a phone book. So, let me go back to VS Code here. Close search.c and let's make an actual phone book. So, I'm going to say code of phonebook C. And then inside of phonebook C, let's use our same header file. So, include CS50.h, include standard io.h, and let's include an advanced string.h. Then let's before as before do int main void. No command line arguments today. Then inside of here, let me give myself first an array of strings. How about some names in the phone book? So I'm going to say string names equals and then three names just to make uh a demonstration. Kelly and David and say John Harvard here. But if it's a phone book, I need more than just names. So let me go ahead and give myself another array. String of numbers open bracket close bracket equals. And now the same phone numbers we used in week zero for the three of us. Uh + 1 617 495 1. Uh same for both Kelly and me. So plus1 uh 1. And then as before, if you'd like to text or call John directly, you can do so at plus1 9494682750 and semicolon. So one question first. I obviously declared our names to be a an array of strings because that's what text is. Why have I also declared phone numbers to be strings and not integers? Because a phone number is like literally a number in the name of it. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So even though we have phone numbers in the US, even though we have social security numbers and a bunch of other things that we call numbers, if you have other non-digits in those uh in those values, you have to actually use strings because if it's not an actual integer, but it does have things like pluses or dashes or parentheses or any other form of punctuation as is common in the US and other countries for phone numbers in particular, you're going to actually want to use strings and not numbers. as well as for corner cases like if there are if you're in the habit back home if you're not from uh say the US and you actually have to dial zero first to make like a local regional call you don't want to have a leading zero in a integer because mathematically as we know from grade school like leading zeros number zeros that come first have no mathematical meaning they're going to disappear effectively from the computer's memory unless we store them in fact as characters in strings in this way okay with that said let's go ahead and ask the human now after having declared those two arrays for the name they want to look up the number of. So let's say string name equals get string and let's go ahead and ask the human uh for the name for which to search. Then let's use a for loop as before for int i equals z i less than 3 which again for demonstration purposes I'm just hard coding today i ++ and then in the for loop I'm going to use our new friend stir comp. If the return value of stir compare passing in names bracket I and the name the human typed in equals equals zero signifying that they are in fact the same. Well that means we found the location i where the person's name is. So let's go ahead and print out found. But just to be fun let's print out whom we found. So percent s back slashn and then output there the number which is going to be in the corresponding numbers array at that same location I will return zero and at the very end of this program let's go ahead and print out not found if we get that far and return one. All right. So, a little more complexity this time, but notice I'm comparing the names just like a normal person would in your iOS app or your Android app when looking for someone's name. But what I care about is getting back the number. So, that's why two lines later, I'm printing out the number that I found at location I, not the name because I already know the name. All right. In my terminal window, let's go ahead and make this phone book dot /phonebook. Let's go ahead and search for John, whose number is hopefully indeed exactly that number. So, suffice it to say, this code two does work. This is a linear search because I'm searching left to right. These aren't actually sorted alphabetically by name or let alone number. So, I think we're doing well here, but I don't necessarily love this implementation. Even if you're new to programming, what might you not like about how I've implemented a phone book in the computer's memory? Why is this maybe not the best design? &gt;&gt; Like there's a correspondence between names and numbers. So like having two different &gt;&gt; Okay. Yeah. And I would say so uh you're pointing out that we have this duality. We've got two arrays. They're the exact same length. And it just so happens that location zero's name lines up with location zero's number and location one and location two. But we're kind of on the honor system here whereby the onus is on us to make sure we don't screw this up and we make sure we always have the same number of names and the same number of numbers and better and moreover that we make get the order exactly right. We are just trusting that when we print out the e number so to speak that it lines up with the e name. So that's fine and honestly for three people who really cares it's fine. But if you think about 30 people, 300, 3 million, well, we're not going to hardcode them all here, but even in some database that we'll store them in later in the course feels like just trusting that we're not going to screw this up is asking for trouble. And indeed, a lot of programming is just that, like not trusting yourself and definitely not trusting your colleague not to mess something up, but programming a bit more defensively and trying to encapsulate related information a little more tightly together and not just assume as on the honor system that these two independent arrays will line up. But at this point, we have no means of solving this problem unless we give ourselves just a bit new functionality and syntax. So I used this phrase earlier to kick things off. data structures. It's like how you structure your data in the computer's memory. Arrays are the simplest of data structures. They just store data back to back to back from left to right continuously in memory. But they all have to be, as we've seen, the same kinds of values. Int int or string string string. There's no mechanism yet for storing an int and a string together and then another int and another string together or let alone two strings, two strings, two strings that are somehow a little bit different. But it would be nice if C gave us an actual data type to store people in a phone book such that we could create an array called people inside of which is going to be a whole bunch of persons if you will back to back to back and I want two of them. So wouldn't it be nice if I could literally use this code in C. Well decades ago when SE was invented they didn't give us a person data type. All we have is int and float and char and bool and string and so forth. Person was not among the available data types. But we can invent our own data types it turns out. So in C what we can do if we want persons to exist and every person in the world shall have a name and a phone number for now we can do this string name string number. Now that's a decent start but it's going to be kind of a stupid implementation if I then just do name uh string name one string name two string name three string name four. We've already started down that road last week and decided arrays were a better solution. But here's an alternative when you want to just store related data together. I can use these two keywords and see typed defaf strruct which albeit tur just means define a new type that is a data structure. So multiple things together inside the curly braces you literally put the two things you want to relate together string name string number and then outside the curly braces you specify the name you want to give to this brand new custom type that you have invented. Technically, stylistically, you'll see that style 50 prefers that the name actually be on the same line as the last curly brace, which looks a little weird to me, but that's what industry tends to do, so so be it. But these several lines together tell C, invent for me a new data type called person, and assume that every person in the world has a string called name and a string called number. And now I can use this new data type in my own code to solve this problem a little bit better. So, in fact, let me go ahead and do this as follows. I'm going to go back to VS Code here. And at the very top of my code, above main, just to make this available to not only Maine, but maybe any future functions I write, I'm going to say type defrct, as we saw on the screen. Inside of my curly braces, I'm going to say string name and string number. And then I'm going to name this thing person. Now, I'm going to go about using this and I'm going to go ahead and delete my previous honor system approach of having names and numbers in separate arrays. And I'm instead going to give myself an array of people. Uh, we could call it persons, but I'm trying to be somewhat grammatically correct. So, I'm going to say people bracket three to give myself an array called people inside of which is room for three persons inside of which is room for a name and number each. So, how do I now initialize these values? So I'm going to hardcode them. That is type them manually. But you can imagine using get string or get or some other function to get this data from the human themselves. I'm going to say go to the people array at location zero and access the name field. And this is syntax we haven't seen yet, but it's not that hard. You literally use a dot, a single period to say go inside of that structure and access the name field, the name attribute, so to speak. And let's set that equal to Kelly. Then let's go into that same array location people bracket zero and set the number for the zeroth person to be + one 6174951000. Then let's go ahead and do the same thing for people bracket 1. Set that person's name to for instance mine David. Then let's do people bracket 1 number equals quote unquote same as Kelly cuz we're both in the directory. So + 1 617495 1,000. And then lastly, people bracket 2.name equals quote unquote John for John Harvard. People bracket 2 number equals + one uh 949 468 275 0 in this case. And now the rest of the code is almost the same. I'm going to now on the new line 24 still ask the user what name they want. I'm going to still iterate from 0 to three because there's still three elements in this array even though each has two values within. And I'm going to compare now not names but people bracket i.name to go access the name of that i person and compare it to the name that the human has typed in. And when I find that person I'm going to go into the people array at location i but print out the number instead. So all we've done here is add this dot notation which allows you to access the inside of a data structure. And all we've done is introduce up here some new C keywords that let you invent your own data types inside of which you can put most anything you want. I have chosen a string name and a string number. All right, let me go ahead and open my terminal window and clear it from before. Let me do make phone book to make this version. So far so good. Make phone book. Enter. I'm going to go ahead now and search for say John. And I have again found his number. So this is still correct. But even though this took more minutes in terms of the voice over and it took more lines of code, it's arguably better designed now because at people bracket zero is an actual person and everything about them. At people bracket one is another person and everything about them and so forth. This is what we mean by encapsulate. You can think of these curly braces as sort of hugging these data types inside of the data structure together so as to keep them together in the computer's memory as well. All right. Well, just to set the stage, uh, literally as we'll strike the lockers and put something else up, the efficiency of binary search as implemented by Caitlyn was predicated on Kelly having in advance sorted the values up front. But of course, we've only considered now the running time of searching for information using two algorithms, and there can be many others in the real world, but those are two of the most canonical. We found that binary search was faster than linear search, but it required that we sort the data. So to your question earlier, maybe we should consider just how expensive it is in terms of time, money, space, humans to sort data, especially a lot of data, and then decide whether or not it's worth using something like binary search or perhaps even something else. So the next problem we'll solve today ultimately is given a generic input and output. The input to our next problem is going to be unsorted data. So like numbers out of order, the output of which should be sorted data. So for instance, if we pass in 72541603, I want whatever black box is implementing my sorting algorithm to spit out 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7. So that's going to be the question we answer. But first, I think it's time for some delightful hello pandas, chocolate biscuits. Uh let's take a 10-minute break and snacks are now served. All right, we are back. And recall that the cliffhanger on which we left was that how do we go about sorting numbers? Well, here are some numbers, eight of them in fact, from 0 to seven. but currently unsorted. Um, we don't quite have enough Monopoly boards for everyone, but we do have some delightful uh Super Mario Brothers Pez dispensers. If I could get eight volunteers for this final demo up here. Oh, and not a lot of hands. Okay. All right. One, two, three, four, five, six, and let's go farther back. Seven, and eight. How about All right. Come on up. Hopefully I counted properly. Come on over. Upon arrival at the stage, go ahead and grab your favorite illuminated number and stand in that same order at the front of the stage if you all could. Welcome to the stage. All right, grab your favorite number. Stand in that same order. All right, good. And one, two, three, four, five, six. I definitely said one through eight. Who is the number eight then? Okay, we need an eight. Come on down. All right. Well, technically we need a four, but come on down. Yeah. All right, grab the four and let me start from this end first if you want to give a quick hello and a little something about you. &gt;&gt; Uh, hi, my name is Cameron. I'm a first year and I want to study mechanical engineering. &gt;&gt; Hi, I'm Charlotte. I'm also first year and I'm in Canada F. &gt;&gt; Hi, I'm Ella. I'm also a first year and I'm in the &gt;&gt; Hi, I'm Precious. I'm also a first year. I'm there. &gt;&gt; Hi, I'm Michael. I'm just an Eventbrite guest. &gt;&gt; Hi, I'm Marie. I'm a first year and I'm &gt;&gt; Hi, I'm Rick. I'm a first year and I'm in whole worthy. &gt;&gt; I'm Jaden. I'm a first year in Hullworthy and I really like free stuff. &gt;&gt; Okay. Well, let's see then uh if we can't award all these Super Mario Brothers Pez dispensers. The first notice, of course, that all eight of our volunteers are completely out of order, but in an ideal world, we would have the smallest number over here. Go over there. Number zero. Wait a minute. Seven. Let's go over here. Two. Okay. F. Okay. Make yourselves look like that. No pez. It's okay. All right. So, 725 41603. Okay. We won't do the introductions again, but now we have a list of numbers completely out of order. And wouldn't it be nice if zero were eventually over here, seven were all the way over there, and everything else was sorted from smallest to largest? Well, if you all could go ahead and sort yourselves from smallest to largest. Go. All right. And Jaden, what was your algorithm for doing that? Um I I I I know that I have the least number because I don't think there anybody has a number less than zero. So I put myself at the last bottom line. &gt;&gt; Okay. And I assume Precious. What was your algorithm? &gt;&gt; I knew I had the largest number. So I just had to be at the end of the &gt;&gt; Okay, fair. So you guys got the easy ones. Uh number four. How about &gt;&gt; I knew three was before me and five was after me. &gt;&gt; Nice. So number four didn't actually have to move coincidentally. But as for five and three and two and one and six, they probably had to take into account some additional information. Who's to their left? Who's to their right? And it just kind of worked. But it didn't look very algorithmic, if you will. It looked very organic and obviously correct. But I'm not sure that same approach would work well if we had not eight, but 80 or 800 or 8,000 pieces of data. So let's see if we can't formalize this a little bit. Let me take the mic and if you guys could reset yourselves to those same original positions from seven on the left to three on the right. Let me propose a couple of algorithms, canonical ones if you will, but see if maybe we can't formalize step by step what to do. So the first one I'm going to do given all of these numbers is just try to select the smallest number. Why? To Jaden's point earlier, I just want to put the smallest number over here. At least that's a problem I can solve. It's very well defined. It's a nice bite out of the problem. So seven. Okay, smallest so far. Two, that's that's smaller. So I'm going to remember that two is the now smallest number I've seen. Not five, not four. One is even smaller. So, I'm going to remember one, not six, zero. That's pretty good. But I'm going to check the whole list. Maybe there's negative one or something like that. But no, three. So, I'm going to remember that zero was the smallest element I found. Let's select Jaden and put Jaden over here. But before Precious or anyone else moves, we don't really have room for you. Like, Precious is in the way because if this is an array of eight values for integers, well, we can't just kind of make room over here because if you think back to last week, we might have uh some garbage values there or something else is going on. We don't want to change data that doesn't belong to us. So what to do with precious? Well, maybe Precious, maybe you can go over there. So you just take Jaden's spot and we'll swap these two values accordingly. Now though, Jaden is in the right space, which is good because now I can move on to the second problem. What's the next smallest element that's presumably greater than zero? Well, at the moment, two is the next smallest element. Not five, not four. Ooh, one is the next smallest element. I'm going to remember that. Not six, not seven, not three. Okay, so number one, if you could go to the right location, but I'm afraid we're going to have to evict number two to make room. All right, let's do this again. Zero and one are in good shape. So now I think I can ignore them as complete. Five is the current smallest. Nope. Four now is Nope. Two now is six. No. Seven. No. Three. No. Okay, so two is the next smallest. So let's swap two and five. And now I've solved three out of the eight problems. Let's do this again. Four is at the moment the smallest. Not five, not six, not Oh, three is the now smallest. So, let's swap three. Four and three, which unfortunately is making the four problem a little worse. Like he belongs there, it would seems, but I think we can fix that later. So, now half of the list is sorted. Five is the next smallest. Six and seven. A four. Now, we got to fix the four. So, four goes back there. Now, I messed up the five, but it will come back to that. All right. Six. Seven. Okay. Five. Let's put you where six is. And now one more mistake to fix. So, seven. Okay. Six and seven need to swap. And now I've solved eight problems in the aggregate. So it's complete. Now to be fair, my approach is clearly way slower than your approach, but you all were working in parallel, whereas I was doing it more methodically, step by step. And I dare say my algorithm is probably going to be more translatable to code. And indeed, what I just acted out is what the world would call selection sort, whereby on each iteration, each pass in front of the humans, I was selecting the smallest element I could find. All right. What how else could I do this, though? So, let's do something that's maybe a little more organic like your approach where you were actually comparing who was next to you. Go ahead and reset yourselves one final time to this arrangement. Seven on the left, three on the right. And let me propose again to walk through the list again and again. But let me focus more narrowly on the problem right in front of me because I felt like I was taking a lot of steps back and forth, back and forth. Maybe we can chip away at some of that wasted time. Let's compare seven and two. They're obviously out of order. So, let's just immediately swap you two if we could. All right. Now, seven and five clearly out of order. Let's swap these two. Seven and four out of order. Let's swap these two. Seven and one out of order. Let's swap these two. Seven and six out of order. Let's swap these two. Seven and zero out of order. Swap these two. Seven and three out of order. Swap these two. So, a lot of work for Precious there. But, I've now indeed solved one of the eight problems. Moreover, I don't need to keep uh addressing the seven problem because notice that Precious has essentially bubbled her way up to the end of the list. And indeed, that's going to be the operative term here. Another algorithm that computer scientists everywhere know is called bubble sort, whereby the goal is to get the biggest elements to just bubble their way up to the top of or the end of the list one at a time. Now, am I done? Well, no. Clearly not. There's still stuff out of order except for precious. Indeed, I have solved one of these eight problems. And now fine, I'll go back and I'm just going to try this same logic again. Two and five, good. Five and four, nope, swap those. Five and one, nope, swap those. Five and six are good. 6 and zero, nope, swap those. Six and three, nope, swap those. And I already know that Precious is where she needs to be. So, I think I'm done with the second of eight problems. And I'll do this a little faster now. Two and four. Four and one, swap. Four and five are good. Five and zero, swap. Five and three, swap. And now we solved three problems. Let me reset. Two and one, swap. Two and four are good. Four and zero, swap. Four and three, swap. And now I've solved half of the problems. Four out of eight. We're almost done. One and two are good. Two and zero, swap. Two and three are good. Okay. And now we're done with five out of the eight problems. One and zero swap. Uh, one and two are good. Those are all good. And let me just do a final sanity check. Everything now is sorted. So now I'm done solving all eight of those problems. So, you all were wonderful. We need the numbers back, but Kelly has some delightful Pez dispensers for you on the way out. If you want to head that way, just leave the numbers on the shelves. And a round of applause for our eight volunteers for helping to act this out. So, let's see if we can't formalize what these volunteers kindly just did with us. Starting with the first of those algorithms. Thank you. Namely, selection sort. Let's see if we can't slap some pseudo code on this. thinking of our humans now as more generically an array. So we had the first person at location zero and we had the last person at location n minus one. And just for clarity so that you've kind of seen the uh symbology this obviously is going to be location n minus2. This is location n minus3 and so forth until sort of dot dot dot you hit the other end that we've already written out. So that's just how we would refer to all of our eight volunteers locations or in this case 1 2 3 4 5 6 seven locations but dot dot dot in the middle conoting that this can be a much much larger array. So here's some pseudo code for the first algorithm selection sort for i from zero to n minus one. So from the first element to the last element find the smallest number between the numbers bracket i and numbers bracket n minus one. In other words, if you're starting I at zero, look at specifically every lighted number between location zero and location n minus one. When you have found that smallest element, swap it with the number at location i, which starts again at zero. That's how we got I think jaden into place at the very beginning. Then I by nature of how for loops work gets updated from 0 to one. So that we do the same thing. Find the smallest number between numbers bracket one. So the second element through the eighth element because this number is unchanged. N is the total number of values. So the end point there is not changing. Once we found the second smallest person, we swap them with location I aka one. And that's how we got the number one into position and then the number two and then the number three and number four. So this then was selection sort in pseudo code form. And that allowed us to actually go through this list again and again and again in order to find the next smallest element. So what was happening a little more methodically if it helps just to map that symbology of the bracket notation and the eyes. If this is where we started with location I and we did everything between location N minus one. Essentially I traversed this whole list from left to right literally walking in front of our volunteers looking at each element and the first element I saw was seven. At the moment that was the smallest element I had found. And who knows in a different list maybe seven would be the smallest element. So I kind of stored it in a variable in my mind. But I checked then two and remembered no no two is clearly less than. Now I'm going to remember two. Okay. Now I'm going to remember one when I find it. Then I'm going to remember zero when I find it. And then what I did once I found jade in it with the value of zero uh lighted up. I moved location that location to here and then evicted precious recall and moved precious over to that location that we had freed up. Why? Why all this sort of back and forth? Well, you have to assume with an array that you're not entitled to the memory over here. You're not entitled to the memory over here if you've already decided that you have seven lockers or eight people. You have to commit to the computer in advance. That's why we put the number typically in the square brackets or the compiler infers from the curly brackets how big the array actually is. All right. And suffice it to say when I went through this again and again and again, I did the same thing over and over. Now, you might have thought me sort of dumb for having asked the same questions again and again like I was surprised to discover the number one. I was surprised to discover the number to two even though on my very first pass I literally looked at all eight of those numbers but you have to think about what memory I'm actually using. Now I certainly could have memorized all of the numbers and where they are. But I propose that just very simply I was using like a single variable in my brain just to keep track of the then smallest element. And once I'm done finding that and solving that problem I moved on to do it again and again. But that's going to be a trade-off. And this is going to be thematic in the coming weeks whereby well sure you could use more memory and I could have been smarter about it and maybe that would have improved or um hurt the running time of the algorithm. There's often going to be a trade-off between how much memory or how much time you actually use. So we'll discover that over time. So how fast or slow is selection sort? Well consider when I had eight humans on stage I first went through uh all n of them. But how many comparisons did I make? Really, I was doing n minus one comparisons because if I've got n people, I've got to compare the smallest number I found against everyone else. And you compare n people left to right n minus one times total. So the first pass I was making I was asking n minus one questions. Is this the smallest? Is this the smallest? Is this the smallest? N minus one times. Once I solved one problem, when we got Jaden into Jaden's right place, then I had one fewer problem. Then one fewer fewer problem and so forth. So, it was like n -1 steps plus n -2 steps plus n -3 steps plus dot dot dot one final step once I got to the final of the eight problems. Now, if you remember kind of the cheat sheet at the back of your math books, uh say growing up, you'll note that this uh series here can be more simply written as n * n -1 all / 2. And if you've not seen that before, just take on faith that this is identical to this series of numbers up here. So, now we can just kind of multiply this out. So that's technically n^2 minus n all divided by 2, which is great. If we multiply that out, that's n^ square over 2 - n /2. We're getting too into the weeds. Let's whip out our big O notation now, whereby we can wave our hands at the lower order terms only care about the biggest most dominant term, which mathematically in this expression, if you plug in a really big value of n, which is going to matter more? The n squ, the two, the n, or the two? Like the n squ? like the others absolutely contribute to the total value. But if you plug in a really big value, the dominant force is going to be this n squ because that's really going to blow up the total value. So we can say that selection sort when analyzed in this way, ah it's on the order of n squared steps because I'm doing so many comparisons so many times. So if that's the case, the question then is um what is indeed not just its upper bound but maybe it's lower bound as we'll eventually see. So for selection sort for now, let's stipulate that it's indeed in big O of N squ. And that's actually the worst of the algorithms we've seen. Like that's way slower than linear search because at least linear search was big O of N. Selection sort is N squar which of course is N * N which is and will feel much much slower than that. So what if though we consider the lower bound of selection sort? All right, maybe it's bad in the worst case, but maybe it's really good when the numbers are mostly sorted. Unfortunately, this is the same pseudo code for selection sort. We make no allowance for checking the list to make sure it's already sorted. And in fact, that's kind of a perverse case to consider for any algorithm. What if the problem's already solved? How's your algorithm going to perform? Like if all of my volunteers is they kind of almost did accidentally, they started lining up roughly in order. Suppose they literally had been in order from 0 to 7. Well, my stupid algorithm would still have me walking back and forth, back and forth, back and forth. Why? because the code literally tells me do this this many times and every time I do that find the smallest element. So it's going to be sort of a stupid output because the list is not going to be any changed any any at all changed but my code is not taking into account in any way the original order of the numbers. So no matter what this is to say that if we consider whether the lockers or the humans the omega notation for this algorithm even in the best case where the data is already sorted is crazily also n squared. Now I could certainly change the pseudo code but selection sort as the world knows it is more of a demonstrative algorithm or sort of a quick and dirty one. Its running time is going to be in omega of n squ. And now we can actually deploy our theta notation because the bigo notation is n^ squ and the omega notation is n^ squ and the same. We can also say that selection sort is in theta of n^2 which is not great because that's annoyingly slow. So maybe the solution here is don't do that. Let's use bubble sort instead. The second algorithm where I just compared everyone side by side again and again. Well, here's some pseudo code for bubble sort which you can assume applies to the same kind of array from zero on up to n minus one. Here's one way to write bubble sort. Repeat the following n times. For i from 0 to n minus 2, if the number at location i and the number at location i + 1 are out of order, swap them. And there's kind of an elegance to this algorithm and that like that's it. And you just assume that when you go through the list, this is how from I from 0 to n minus two, this is how I was effectively comparing elements 0 and 1, one and two, two and three, three and four, dot dot dot, uh seven, six and seven. But notice I didn't say eight. There were eight total people. Why do we go from 0 to n minus2 instead of from 0 to n minus one? Uh yeah. Yeah. We already checked the last one. &gt;&gt; Not quite. So it's not that we've already checked the last one. I'm saying with this line of code here, we never even go to N minus one. Technically, &gt;&gt; if we have NUS, it is going to compare against NUS because that's &gt;&gt; exactly because we're doing this simple arithmetic here. We're checking current location I + 1. You can think of these as my left and right hand. Left hand is pointing at zero. Right hand's pointing at one. I don't want to do something stupid and have my left hand point at n minus one because then my right hand arithmetically when you add one is going to point at n which does not exist. That's beyond the boundary of the array because the array goes from zero to n minus one. So just a little bit of a safety check there to make sure we don't walk right off the end of the array. But we do this n times because recall that precious ended up being where uh seven needed to be at the very end of the list. But that didn't mean there weren't seven uh seven more problems still to solve. 0 through six. So I did it again and I did it again and per its name bubble sort the biggest element bubbled up first then the next biggest then the next biggest then the next business biggest biggest that is seven then six then five then four and we got lucky on some of them but eventually we finished with zero. So how do we analyze this thing? Well, we could also technically do this n minus one times as an aside if you're thinking through that I'm wasting some time because we get one for free once we get to uh solving seven problems. You get the eighth one for free because that person is obviously where they need to go. So when we had these numbers initially and we were comparing them with bubble sort again left hand right hand it's like treat this as I this is I plus one and we just kept swapping pair-wise numbers if in fact they were out of order. So all this is saying is what our humans were doing for us organically. So how do we actually analyze the running time of this? Last time I just kind of spitballled that it was n minus one steps plus n minus two steps. Well, you can actually look at pseudo code sometimes and if it's neatly written, you can actually infer from the pseudo code how many steps each line is going to take. For instance, how many steps does this first line take? I mean like literally n minus one. The answer is right there because it's saying to the computer or to me acting it out, repeat the following n minus one times. All right, so that's helpful. How many line how many steps does this inner loop induce? Well, you're going from i to n minus2. So that's actually n minus one total steps not n. And then this question here, if numbers bracket i and numbers i are out of order, it's a single question. It's like our boolean expression. We'll call it one. I mean, maybe you need to do a bit of more work than that, but it's a constant number of steps. Doesn't matter how big the list is. Comparing two numbers is always going to take the same amount of time. And then swapping them, oh, I don't know, it's going to take like one or two or three steps, but constant. Doesn't matter which the numbers are takes the same amount of work. So, let's stipulate, let me rewind, stipulate that the real things that matter are the loops. These constant number of steps, who really cares? But the loops are what are going to add up as n gets large. So this really then is if this is the outer loop and this is the inner loop. Think about our two-dimensional Mario square from week one. We did something on the outside and then something on the inside to get our rows and columns. This is equivalent to n -1 * n minus one. If we do our little foil method, n^2 - n - n + 1 combine like terms, n^2 - 2 n + 1. Who cares? This is ultimately going to be on the order of big O of N squared only because again if you ask yourself when I plug in a really big value for N which of these is really going to contribute most to the answer it's obviously going to be n^ squ again and we can ignore the lower order terms. So this doesn't seem to have made any progress like selection sort was on the order of big O of N was on the order of N squ bubble sort based on this analysis is also on the order of N squed. Maybe we're getting lucky in the lower bound. So on the upper bound for bubble sort, it's indeed n squ as was selection sort. But with this pseudo code for bubble sort, unfortunately we rather unfortunately we were not doing anything clever to catch that perverse case where maybe the list was already sorted. After all, consider if the list was sorted from 0 to 7. I was still asking all the same darn questions. Even if I did no work, I was going to repeat that n minus one times back and forth making no swaps but making all of those comparisons. But here's an enhancement to bubble sort that we can add that selection sort didn't really have room for. I can say after one pass of this inner loop walking from left to right, if I made no swaps, quit. So put another way, if I traverse the list from left to right, I make no swaps, I might as well just terminate the algorithm then because there's no more work clearly to be done. All right. So based on that modification, the lower bound of bubble sorts running time would be said to be an omega then of n because I'm minimally going to need to make one pass through the list. You can't possibly claim that the list is sorted unless you actually check it once. And if there's n elements, you're going to have to look at all n of them to make sure that it's in order. But after that, if you've done no work and made no swaps, no reason to traverse the list again and again and again. So a bubble sort can be said to be an omega of n because indeed we can just terminate after that single pass if we've done no work. We can't say anything about theta because they're not one and the same big O and omega. But that does seem to have given us some savings. Unfortunately, it really only saves us time when the list is already or mostly sorted. But in the average case and in the worst case, odds are they're both going to perform just as bad on the order of n square. In fact, let's take a look at a visualization that'll make this a little clearer than our own humans and voices uh might have explained. Here is a bunch of vertical purple bars uh made by a friend of ours uh in the real world. And this is an animation that has a bunch of buttons that lets us execute certain algorithms. A small bar represents a small number. A big bar represents a big number. And the goal is to get them from small numbers or small bars to big numbers or big bars left to right. So I'm going to go ahead and click on selection sort initially. And what you'll see from left to right is in pink the current smallest element that's been discovered, but also in pink the equivalent of my walking across the stage left to right again and again and again trying to find the next smallest element. And you'll see clearly just like when we put Jaden at the far left, the smallest element ended up over here. But it might take some time for precious for instance or number seven to end up all the way over on the right because with each pass we're really just fixing one problem at a time and there's n problems total which is giving us on the order of those n squared steps and now the list is getting shorter so we're at least doing some work that you don't have to keep touching the elements you already sorted which just like I was. So now selection sort is complete. Let's visualize instead bubble sort. So let me rerandomize the array just so we're starting with a random order. Now let's click on bubble sort. And you'll see the pink bars work a little differently. It conotes which two numbers are being compared at that moment in time. Just my like my left hand and right hand going left to right. And you'll see that even though it's not quite as pretty as selection sort where I was getting at least the smallest elements all the way to the left here, we're just pair fixing pair-wise problems, but the biggest elements like precious's number seven are indeed bubbling their way up to the top one after the other. But as you can see, and this is where n squared is sort of visual visualizable, we're touching these elements or looking at them so many times again and again. We are making so many darn comparisons. This is taking frustratingly long. And this is only what a few dozen bars or numbers. You can imagine how long this might take with hundreds, thousands, or millions of values. I dare say we're going to have to do better than bubble sort and selection sort because we're not done even yet. just trying to give the satisfaction of getting to the end and now we are. But neither of those algorithms seems incredibly performant because it's still taking us quite a bit of time to actually get to that there solution. So how can we actually do better than that? Well, we can try taking a fundamentally different approach. And this is one technique that you might have encountered in math or even in the real world even if you haven't sort of applied this name to it. Recursion is a technique in mathematics and in programming that allows you to take sort of a fundamentally different approach to a problem. And in short, a recursive function is one that's uh defined in terms of itself. So if you had like f ofx equals f of something on the right hand side of a mathematical expression, that would be recursive in that the function is dependent on itself. More practically in the world of programming a recursive function is a function that calls itself. So if you are writing some function in C and in that function you call yourself you actually have a line of code that says call that same function by the same name. That function is recursive. Now this might feel a little weird because if a function is calling itself it feels like this is the easiest way to get into an infinite loop because why would it ever stop if the function is calling itself calling itself calling itself calling itself? We're going to have to actually address that kind of problem. But in the real world, we've actually or rather in this class already, we've actually seen implicitly an example of this including today as well as in week zero. So here is that algorithm for searching the doors of the lockers. And recall that after we did this check at the very top, if there are any doors left, return false. If if uh not, we did these uh conditions. We said if the number is behind the middle door, return true cuz we found it. But things got interesting here where I said if else if the number is less than the middle door then search the left half. Else if the number is greater than the middle door then search the right half. Well at that point in time you should be asking me or yourself well how do I sort search the left half? How do I search the right half? Well here you go. Like on the screen right now is a search algorithm. And even though it says down here search the left half or search the right half which is like well how do I do that? We'll just use the same algorithm again. And this is how in terms of my voice over, you end up searching the left half of the left half or the right half of the left half or any such combination. This line here, search left half. This line here, search right half, is representative of a recursive call. This is an algorithm or a function that calls itself. But why does it not induce an infinite loop? Like why is it important that this line and this line are written exactly as they are so as to avoid this thing just forever searching aimlessly? &gt;&gt; there's the condition at which it stops. &gt;&gt; We do have this condition at which it stops. But more importantly, what is happening before I make these recursive calls? &gt;&gt; Exactly. I'm recursing that is calling myself but I'm handing myself a smaller problem. A smaller problem. a smaller problem. It would be bad if I just handed myself the exact same number of doors and just kept saying, "Search these, search these, search these." Because you would never make any progress. But just like our volunteers earlier, so long as we did divide and conquer and we search smaller and smaller numbers of doors, eventually indeed we're going to bottom out and either find the number we're looking for or we're not. So, generally, we're going to call these kinds of conditions that sort of just ask a very obvious question and want an immediate answer base cases. Base cases are generally conditionals that ask a question to which the answer is going to be yes or no right then and there. A recursive case by contrast these two down here is when you actually need to do a bit more work to get to your final answer. You call yourself but with a smaller version of the problem. So we could have in fact in week zero have written this sort of similarly. If you go back to in your mind to week zero we had more of a procedural approach so to speak. When we were searching the phone book, I proposed that this induced what we called loops on line 8 and line 11, which just literally said go back to line three. And that was more of a mechanical way of sort of inducing a loop structure. But if I really wanted to be elegant, I could have said, well, you know what? 7 and 8 together really just mean search the left half. And 10 and 11 together really mean just search the right half. So let's condense these pairs of lines into shorter instructions. Search the left half of the book. Search the right half of the book. I can then delete two blank lines and now I have a recursive algorithm for searching a phone book. It's a little less obvious because you have to ask yourself when you get to line seven or nine, wait a minute, how do I search the left half or the right half? And that's when you need to realize you start the same algorithm again but with a problem that's half as large. In week zero, we do the procedural approach where we literally tell you what line of code to go to, but today we're offering a different formulation, a recursive approach where it's more implicit what you should do. and we'll see now a couple of examples from the real world, so to speak. So, here's a screenshot from Super Mario Brothers 1 on the original Nintendo uh entertainment system. Let me go ahead and get rid of some of the distraction like the the um ground and the mountains there. And here we have a sort of half pyramid, not unlike that you implemented in problem set one. But this is an interesting realworld physical structure in that you can define it recursively. Like what is a pyramid of height for if you will? Well, just to be a little uh a little difficult, a pyramid of height four is really just a pyramid of height three plus one more row. Okay. Well, what is a pyramid of height three? Well, a pyramid of height three is really just a pyramid of height two plus one more row. Well, what's a pyramid of height two? Well, a pyramid of height two is really just a pyramid of height one plus one more row. Well, what's a pyramid of height one? A single brick on the screen. And I sort of changed my tone with that last remark to convey that this could then be our base case whereby I just tell you what the thing is without sort of kicking the can and inviting you to think through what a smaller structure is plus one more row. Whereas every other definition I gave you then of a pyramid of some height was defined in terms of that same structure albeit a smaller version thereof. So we can actually um see this in the real world. Let me go ahead and pull up one thing here. I'm going to go to uh give me one sec before I flip over. Here I am on google.com. If you'd like a little computer science humor here, uh if you ever Google search for recursion and hit enter, you'll see uh a joke that computer scientists at Google find funny. Haha. One, two laughs. Does anyone see the joke? I did not make a typo, but Google's asking me, did I mean recursion? And if I click on that, I just get the same haha page. Okay. All right. That didn't go over well. Anyhow, so there are these Easter eggs in the wild everywhere because computer scientists are the ones that implement these things. But let's go ahead and actually um implement, for instance, a version of this in code. Let me go back over here in a moment to VS Code. And in VS Code, let me propose that in my terminal window, let me create one of two final programs. This one's going to be called iteration C. Just to make clear that this is the iterative that is loop-based version of a program whose purpose in life is to print out a simple Mario pyramid. I'm going to go ahead and include cs50.h at the top as well as standard io.h. I'm not going to need string.h. I don't need any command line arguments today. So this is going to start off with inmain void. And now I'm going to go ahead and ask a question like uh give me a variable called height of type integer and ask the human for the height of this Mario like pyramid. And then let's assume for the moment that I've already implemented a function called draw whose purpose in life is to draw a pyramid of that height semicolon. So I've abstracted away for the moment the notion of drawing that pyramid. Now let's actually implement draw whose purpose in life again is to print out a pyramid akin to the one we saw a moment ago like this here on the screen. Well, in order to print out a pyramid of a given height, I think I need to say uh void uh draw int n for instance because I'm not going to bother returning a value. I just want this thing to print something on the screen. So void is the return type. But I do want to take as input an integer like the height of the thing I want to print. I can call this argument or parameter anything I want. I'll call it n for number. So how can I print out a pyramid that again looks like this? Well, I'll do this quicker than you might have in problem set one. But seems obvious that like on the first row I want one brick. On the second row I want two. On the third I want three. On the fourth I want four. So it's actually a little easier than problem set one in that it's sloped in a different direction. So let me go ahead and do exactly this in code. Let me say for int i= 0 i less than n the height i ++. So this is going to be really for each row of the pyramid pyramid. Let me go ahead now and in an inner loop for int j equals z, let's do j less than i + 1 for reasons we'll see in a moment and then j++ and then inside of this loop let's just print out a single hash no new line but at the end of the row let's print out a single new line to move the cursor to the next line. Now why am I doing this? Well, this represents for each column of pyramid. And if you think about it, on the first row, which is row zero, I actually want to print not zero bricks, but one brick. So that's why I want to go ahead here and go from zero to i + 1 because if i is zero, i + 1 is 1. So my inner loop is going to go from 0 to 1, which is going to give me one brick. It's a little annoying to think about the math, but this just makes sure that I'm actually getting bricks in the order I want them. And then it's going to give me two bricks and then three and then four. And between each of those rows, it's going to print a new line. So let's go ahead and do make iteration to compile this code. Ah, I messed up. Why do I have a mistake on line eight of this code? Let me hide my terminal and scroll back up. It seems clang. My compiler does not like my draw function. Yeah. Yeah, I forgot the prototype. So this is the one and only time where it seems reasonable to copy paste. Let's grab the prototype of that function up here and go ahead and teach the compiler from the get-go what this function is going to look like even though I'm not defining it now until line 13 onward. All right, let's go ahead and make iteration again. Ah, dot /iteration. Enter. Let's do a height of say four. And voila, now I've got that there pyramid. So, I did it a little quickly and it's certainly to be expected if it took you hours on problem set one to get the other type of pyramid printed. But the point for today is really to demonstrate how we can print a pyramid like this using indeed what I'd call iteration. Iteration just means using loops to solve some problem. But we can alternatively use recursion by reimplementing our draw function in a way that's defined in terms of itself. So let me go into my code here and I'm actually going to leave the prototype the same. I'm going to leave main the same. But what I'm going to go ahead and do is delete all of this iterative code that's doing things very procedurally step by step by step with loops. And I'm instead going to do something like this. Well, if I want to print a pyramid of height n, what did I say earlier? Well, a pyramid of height n is really just a pyramid of height n minus one plus one more row. So, how do I implement encode that idea? Well, let me go back in code here and say, well, if a pyramid of height n first requires drawing a pyramid of height n minus one, I think I can just write this, which is kind of crazy to look at, but cuz you're calling yourself in yourself, but let's see where this takes us. Once I have drawn a pyramid of height n minus one, that is a height three for instance, what remains for me to do is to myself print one more row. And so to print one more row, I think I can do that really easily with fewer loops. I can do four int i= 0 i less than n i ++ and then very simply in this loop I can print out a single hash one at a time at the end of this loop I can print out a new line but no more nesting of loops what I've done is print one more row and here I've done print a pyramid of height n minus one I'm not quite done yet but I think this is consistent with my verbal definition that a pyramid of height three is a pyramid of height sorry a pyramid of height four is a pyramid of height three which I can implement per line 16 just draw me a pyramid of height n minus one and then I myself will take the trouble to print the fourth and final row but something's missing in this code let me go ahead and try running it let's see what happens make oh oh darn it I meant to call this something else so I'm going to do this I'm going to close this version here I'm going going to rename iteration C to recursion C to make clear that this version is completely different. Let me now go ahead and make the recursion version. And huh, Clang is noticing that I have screwed up. On line 14, it says error. All paths through this function will call itself. And Clang doesn't even want to let me compile this code because that would mean literally just forever loop effectively by calling yourself. So what am I missing in my code here? If I open up what we're now calling recursion.c in my editor, what's missing here over here? Yeah, I'm missing a base case. And I can express this in a few different ways, but I would propose that before I do any drawing of anything at all, let's just ask ourselves if there is anything to draw. So, how about if n equals zero, well then don't do anything, just return. You don't return a value. When your return value is void, it means you don't return anything. So you just return period or return semicolon. Or just to be super safe, I could actually do something like this, which is arguably better practice just in case I get into this perverse scenario where someone hands me a negative number. I want to be able to handle that and not print anything either. So just to be safe, I might say less than or equal to zero. I'm not doing one because if I did do one, then I would want to at least myself print out one brick, which is fine, but I'd have to like rech change all of my code a little bit. So I think it's safer if my base case is just if n is less than or equal to zero, you're done. Don't do anything. And this then ensures that even though thereafter I keep calling draw again and again and again and the problems getting smaller and smaller from four to three to two to one, as soon as I hit zero, the function will finally return. So let's go ahead and open up my terminal. Rerun make recursion to make this version did compile this time. dot /recursion enter let's type in four cross my fingers and this too prints the exact same thing and even though it doesn't look like fewer lines of code I would offer that there's an elegance to what I've just done whereas with the iterative version with all the loops it was very clunky like step by step just print this and print that and have a nested loop inside of another but with this especially if we distill it into its essence by getting rid of my comments like this and frankly I can get rid of the unnecessary curly braces only because for single lines in conditionals. You don't need them. Like this is arguably like a very beautiful implementation of drawing Mario's pyramid even though it's calling itself and arguably because it is calling itself. Questions then on this idea of recursion or this implementation of Mario? Yeah. &gt;&gt; Are there no scope issues involved if you like? &gt;&gt; Good question. Are there any scope issues involved? Short answer, no. However, the current value of I, for instance, will not be visible to the next time the function is called. It will have its own copy of I, if that's what you mean. And we'll next week talk in more detail about what's going on here. And in fact, I probably can't break this in class very easily. But it turns out if I use a very large version for heights, let's just hit a lot of zeros and see what happens. That was too many. Let's see what happens. That's also too many. Let's see what happens there. That's the first time at least I in class have encountered this error. You might have encountered this weird bug in office hours or in your problem set and that's fine if you did. We'll talk about what this means next week too. But this is bad. Like this clearly hints at a problem in my code. However, the iterative version of this program would not have that same error. So this relates to something involving memory because it turns out as a little teaser for next week, each time I call draw, I'm using a little more memory, a little more memory, a little more memory, a little more memory, and my computer only has so much memory. this program in its current form is using too much memory. There are workarounds to this, but that is a trade-off to the elegance we're gaining in this solution. So, what's the point of all this? And how do we get sidetracked by Mario? There's another sorting algorithm. The third and final one that we'll consider today that actually uses recursion to solve the problem not only elegantly arguably, but also way faster somehow than bubble sort and selection sort. And in essence, it does so by making far fewer comparisons and wasting a lot less work. It doesn't keep comparing the same numbers again and again. Here in its essence is the pseudo code for merge sort. Sort the left half of the numbers, sort the right half of the numbers, then merge the sorted halves. And this is kind of a weird implementation of an algorithm because I'm not really telling you anything. It seems like you're asking me how do I sort numbers and I say, well, sort the left half, sort the right half. It's like someone being difficult. And yet implicit in this third line is apparently some magic. This notion of merging halves that are somehow already sorted is actually going to yield a successful result. As an aside, we're actually going to need one base case here, too. So, if you're only given one number, you might as well quit right away because there's nothing to do. So, we'll toss that in there as well. And base cases are often for zero or one or some smallum sized problem. In this case, it's a little easier to express it as one because if you have one element, it's indeed already sorted. So, what does it mean to merge two sorted halves? Well, let's actually consider this. I'm going to reuse some of these same numbers here. I'm going to put my one, my three, my four, and my six on the left. And these together represent a list that is indeed sorted of size four. And then I'm going to put four other numbers on the right there that are similarly sorted as well. And by merging these two lists, I mean start at the left end of this list, start at the left end of this list, and just decide one step at a time which number is the next smallest. And then I'm going to put it on the top shelf to make clear what is sorted. So if my left hand's pointing at this list, my right hand's pointing at there, which hand is obviously pointing to the smaller element, left or right? Like the right. So I'm going to grab this and I'm going to use a little more space up top here and put the zero in place. And then I'm going to point to the next element there. So my left hand has not moved yet. It's still pointing at the one. My right hand is pointing at the two. Which number comes next? Clearly left. So, I'm going to grab the one and put it up there and update where my left hand is pointing. So, now I'm pointing at the three here and the two there. What comes next? Obviously the two. What comes next? Obviously the three. What comes next? Obviously the four. What comes next? Obviously the five. But notice my hands are not going back and forth, back and forth, back and forth like any of the algorithms thus far. I'm just taking baby steps, moving them only to the right, effectively pointing at for a final time each number once and only once. What comes next? Six. And now my left hand is done. What comes last? The number seven. So what I just did is what I mean by merge the sorted halves. If you can somehow get into a scenario where you've got a small list sorted and another small list sorted, it's super easy now to merge them together using that left right approach, which I'll claim only takes n steps. Why? Because every time I asked you a question, I was taking one bite out of the problem. There's eight bytes total. I asked you eight questions or I would have if I verbalized them all. So, it's n steps total to merge lists of that size. So, what then is merge sort? Merge sort is really all three of these steps together only one of which we've acted out. Two of which are sort of cyclical in nature. They're recursive by design. So what does this mean? Well, let's start with this list of eight numbers which is clearly out of order. 6 3 4 1 5270. And let's apply merge sort to this set of numbers. And I'll do it digitally here because it'll take forever to keep moving the numbers up and down physically. So let's move it to the top just to give ourselves a little bit more room. And let me propose that we apply merge sort. What was the very first step in merge sort? At least that we highlighted the juicy steps. What's the first step in merge sort? Sort the left half. Yeah. And then the second step was going to be sort the right half. And then the third step was going to be merge the sorted halves. So let's see what this means by actually acting it out on these numbers. So here's my eight numbers. Let's go ahead and sort the left half. Well, the left half is obviously going to be the four numbers on the left. And I'm just going to pull them out just to draw our attention to them over here. Now I have a list of size four and the goal is to sort the left half. How do I sort a list of size four? &gt;&gt; Uh be well yes but just be more pedantic like how do I sort any list using merge sort &gt;&gt; sort the left half. So let's do just that. So of a list of size four how do I sort this? Well I'm going to sort the left half. How do I sort a list of size two? &gt;&gt; Sort the left half. All right. Well I'm just going to write the six here. How do I sort a list of size one? I just don't. I'm done. That was the so-called base case where I just said return. Like I'm done sorting the list. Okay, so here I here's the story recap. Sort the left half. Sort the left half. Sort the left half. And I just finished sorting this. So what comes next? Sort the right half, which is this. And now I've sorted the left half of the left half of the left half, which is a big mouthful. But what do I do as a third and final step when sorting this list of size two? Merge them. This part we know how to do. I point left and right. And I now take the smallest element first, which is the three. Then I take the six. And now this list of size two is sorted. So if you remind in your mind's eye, what step are we on? Well, we have now sorted the left half of the left half. So what comes after the left half is sorted? We sort the right half. So we're sort of rewinding in time, but that's okay. I'm keeping track of the steps in my mind. I want to now sort this list of size two. How do you sort a list of size two? Well, you divide it into a list of size one. How do you sort this? You're done. You then take the other right half and you sort it. Done. Now you merge the two sorted halves. So I point at the four and the one. Obviously the one comes first, then the four. Now I have sorted the right half of the uh the right half of the left half of the original numbers. What's the next step? Now that I have the left and right halves of this list of s four sorted merge those. So same idea but with fewer elements. I'm pointing at the three and the one. Obviously the one comes. Now I'm pointing at the three and the four. Obviously the three comes next. Pointing at the six and the four. The four comes next. And now the six comes last. Now I have sorted the left half. And it's intentional that 1 3 4 6 is the original arrangement of the lighted numbers I had on the shelves a moment ago. All right, it's a long story it seems. But what comes after you sorting the left half of the original list? You sort the right half. So let's put some uh put those numbers over here. How do I sort a list of size four? Well, you sort the left half. How do you sort this thing of size two? You sort the left half. You sort the right half. And now you merge those together. How do I now sort the right half of the right half? Well, I sort the left half. I sort the right half. And then I merge those together. Now I have sorted the left half and the right half of the right half of the original elements. What's next? The merging 0 2 5 and 7. Now we're exactly where we were originally with the lighted numbers. I've got 1 3 4 6. The left half sorted 0257. The right half sorted. What's the third and final step? Merge those two halves. of course 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 and 7 and hopefully even though there's a lot of words that come out of my mouth I was acting this out there wasn't a lot of back and forth like I definitely wasn't like walking back and forth physically and I also wasn't comparing the same numbers again and again I was doing sort of different work at different conceptual levels but that was like only what like three levels total it wasn't n levels on the board visually so where does this get us with merge sort s. Well, with merge sort, it would seem that we have an algorithm that I claim is doing a lot less work. The catch, though, is that merge sort requires twice as much space, just as we saw when I needed two shelves in order to merge those two lists. So, how much less work is actually going to be possible? Well, let's consider sort of the analysis of the original list and how we might describe its its running time in terms of this big O notation. Hopefully, it's not going to be as bad as n^ squ ultimately. So, here are some like breadcrumbs that if I hadn't kept updating the screen and deleting numbers once we moved them around,