that you want to get. Now I know on most systems an integer is indeed four bytes. So if I want space for three integers, I could just do 3 * 4 is 12 and put 12 inside the parenthesis here. But that's generally frowned upon because it would make my code less portable to other systems where an int might not be four bytes. So turns out you can use this operator size of and actually ask the computer how big is a data type like an int on this specific system. And for chars you'll always get back one. For ins usually get back four. And same goes for other data types as well. But this is the more dynamic way to ask that question. If you want to get three uh integers worth of memory, what I'm then going to do is assign on the left hand side the return value of maloc to this variable x just because and x itself is a pointer to an integer more specifically to this chunk of memory which is a sequence of three integers. This is very arbitrary and this is only meant to demonstrate things you can do incorrectly ultimately. But this is how I would dynamically get space for three integers from maloc and store the address thereof in x. So it stands to reason that I could put my first value at uh x bracket 1 equ= 72, my second value uh equaling 73 and my third value equaling 33. Now if some of this is rubbing you wrong, like these are actually there's riddled with mistakes already, some of which are old to us. What's the first thing I've done wrong? Even if you have no idea what's going on with line eight, what about lines 9, 10, and 11? What I do wrong? &gt;&gt; Yeah, my indexing is wrong. Like we've known for weeks now that with arrays or with array syntax, you always start counting at zero, then one, then two, not one, two, three. So that's an issue. And this is a new detail. But given that I've used maloc on line 8, what other mistake have I done in this version of the program? What's missing? Free. So I didn't actually call free. So this program has a memory leak. It's asking for memory and never handing it back. Now that's pretty good. You know, a few of us were able to just kind of eyeball the code and debug it. But that's not going to be true for all people, all programs, certainly when the programs get larger and more complicated. So a program like Valgrren's purpose in life is to help you spot these kinds of errors. So for instance, when I run make memory to compile this program and then do slashmemory at a glance, like it actually seems perfectly fine, if only because I'm not seeing any me errors even when I compile it or when I run it. But we I do claim that there's at least two that we've seen here. It's just we're not getting so unlucky that the program is actually crashing as a result. So this is a more latent, harder to detect bug. But what I'm going to do now is this. I'm going to open up my terminal window in full screen. I'm going to then do Valgrind space memory so as to run the Valgrren memory checker on this program. So similar to debug 50, but the name now is Valgrren. This isn't a CS50 thing. This is a common program that programmers use. When I hit enter, the output's going to be atrocious, frankly. Um it's more way more complicated than it needs to be. They put this number here, which means something specific, but it's just stupid that it's on every line of output. So it's overwhelming at a glance. But once you've trained your eyes to look for useful information, there's a couple of useful insights here. So one, invalid write of size 4 that apparently is somehow related to line 11. So let's go there. Let me just minimize my terminal window, look at line 11 of memory C, and just see which line that was. Okay, invalid write of size 4. Well, writing means like changing a value. Reading means accessing a value. So they're sort of opposites. invalid write of size four. Well, here's why it's generally useful to know generally how big an int is. Like four, you're trying to write four bytes incorrectly. So why is line 11 invalid? Just to be clear, because the index is off like I'm touching memory that I should not. If I ask the computer for space for three integers, each of which is four bytes, that should give me location 0, one, and two, not location three. So you still have to know a little something about programming to be able to make good use of that information invalid right of size four but once you've sort of trained your mind and your eye to catch it like h now I'm an idiot I have to go in and fix that problem but what else is wrong based on valgrren's output here so this is kind of worrisome leak summary definitely lost 12 bytes in one blocks I don't really know what one blocks means for now but 12 bytes should be familiar because if you generally remember that an int is four bytes and you ask or three of them. Oh, there's my 12. So, somehow I'm losing 12 bytes of memory. Not in a literal sense, but it means by the time the program finishes, you have not returned or freed all of the memory that you asked for. So, this line here is your hint that you've done something wrong with respect to 12 bytes in total. And sometimes you'll see slightly different output here. For instance, we see mentioned up here, 12 bytes and one blocks are definitely lost in loss record 101. Very verbose. But the juicy part is ah on line 8 is the source of that error specifically. So there too it's a little bit of a breadcrumb leading me to the solution for fixing this. So if I go up here, I look at line 8. Okay, there's only so much that I could have done wrong on line 8. If I've maloced the memory on line 8, sounds like I do need to free it later on. So let's fix both of these problems. The first one is just the indexing issue. Change the 1 2 3 to 0 1 2. Let's then ch fix the second problem by just freeing x at the very end. And just for good measure, this was not caught by Valgrren because it doesn't always happen. But there's one other scenario that could go wrong and it relates to line eight. What should I be doing? &gt;&gt; I am doing an array, but recall that we can use array syntax on chunks of memory. So technically what line 8 is doing is this. It is allocating 12 bytes of memory from the computer just because just to demonstrate how maloc works and it's storing the address of that first bite in a variable called x. The bracket notation is just the syntactic sugar that allows me to change values at x's address. I could alternatively just use pointers and say go to x and put 72 there. Go to x + one and put 73 there. go to x + 2 and put 33 there using pointer arithmetic. But those are identical and no generally, you know, most people would just use square bracket notation because it's just a little cleaner and easier to read and write. Okay, but back to this question. There's still a subtle bug here based on our example just before break. What should you be doing anytime you call maloc and get string and a few other functions for that matter? Did I hear the answer? Checking for checking for null, right? Because if me lock has an error, there's not enough memory for whatever reason, you should not be proceeding to touch that memory because it might be the null address that is 0x0. So what you should really be checking is, well, if x equals equals null, there's no more work to be done here. Let's just return one down here. And only if we get all the way to the bottom should we maybe return zero to signify uh explicitly that there is in fact successful operation. All right, with that said, let's go back down here. Remake memory. No error messages from the compiler. Dot /memory. That too seems okay, but it was fine the first time. Let's now run valgrren. Let me uh maximize my window. Run valgrren dot slashmemory. Crossing my fingers as always. And now this is actually pretty good. It's much shorter output even though it's just as scary at a glance, but most of this is fluffy and not uh very uh revealing. Heap summary in use at exit zero and zero. So look like all heap blocks were freed. No leaks are possible. Heap is a word we'll come back to, but this means there's nothing wrong. In fact, zero errors, which is a good thing. So in short, Valgrren is among the most arcane programs we're going to use. It's output was really designed for those more comfortable, if you will. But there's still juicy insights there. If you just kind of look for things that lead you to like this file on this line number, odds are that will lead you to the most subtle of bugs. In fact, another type of bug is when we do indeed touch memory, we shouldn't. So, let me uh zoom out on that, clear my terminal, and let me open up another program or maybe write this one real fast incorrectly. So, let me create a program called garbage.c C to demonstrate what we've generally called garbage values. That is values that are still in memory, but I didn't put them there myself necessarily. I'm going to include standard io.h. I'm going to include standard lib.h. And then I'm going to go ahead and actually no need for standard lib this time. Let's do int main void. And inside of main, let's give myself an array of like way too many exam scores or whatnot. We used to do just a few, but let's say there's a,024. Then let's go ahead and do for int uh for int i equals z i less than 124 i ++ and in here let's go ahead and print out uh whoops let's go ahead and print out using print f each of those scores of course I have clearly forgotten to do something in this program which is what I haven't actually put in any scores there for real like I've asked the computer give me an array for 12,024 integers, but I've not used get int or even manually typed in any of my quiz scores, which we did in the past. That's because I'm intentionally trying to show us garbage inside of the computer's memory. What this loop is going to do on line 8 now is literally print out the first int, the second int, the third int, all,024 ins, but all of them should be garbage values because I myself haven't put anything in those addresses yet. So, let's go ahead and make garbage. Let's go ahead and maximize my terminal window just to see more on the screen. Do dot/garbage. It's going to be super fast output because the computer's way faster than,024 variables values alone. There is a lot of garbage output. So when we talk about garbage values in the abstract like here's just some random zeros, a 25, a 32,000, a negative number and so forth, that's because that's essentially remnants from the computer's memory of stuff that might have happened previously, not necessarily by me in this moment, which is to say you just shouldn't touch that memory at all whatsoever. So now we're seeing garbage values for the actual first time. Let's consider another example of a program that uh doesn't contain that does contain potentially memory errors. And let's look at this too. So this is not really a useful program. It's meant to be demonstrative of some of these concepts. So here we have a program takes no command line arguments. Up here we've got a line that pair of lines that declares two pointers but doesn't yet initialize them to any variables. And that's fine. You don't have to have an equal sign with any variable. You just eventually should assign it some value. But this just tells the computer, give me a variable X int. Give me another variable Y that's going to store the address of another int. Okay, what happens next? Well, on this line of code, in this simple example, we're allocating enough space for a single integer just because it's a stupid exercise. There's no reason to do this other than to demonstrate how Maloc works for the moment. Maloc returns the address of that chunk of memory. So that's what goes in X. So X is now pointing at somewhere in memory four bytes of space that it can certainly put a value at. How do we do that? Well, if you do star X and use the dreference operator, that means go to that chunk of memory and put the number 42 there. That's totally valid. This says go to the address in Y and put the unlucky number 13 there. Unlucky quite literally because what is Y pointing to at this moment? It's just the garbage address. Why? Because if you don't initialize Y, who knows what it's going to be pointing to? Maybe it's zero, maybe it's 25, maybe it's 32,000, a negative number, just like we saw in the previous example. You have no idea what values are going to be in X and Y unless you yourself put those values there. So, this is highlighted in red because bad things are going to happen if you try to dreference an invalid or a bogus pointer. Even worse than just touching uh variables that might not have values, if you dreference an address and try going to some random place, the computer is generally not going to like that. And in fact, our friends at Stanford wonderfully brought this particular scenario to life whereby even though this example is a bit contrived just to fit it all on the screen at once, it is going to be the case that bad things happen if we don't check for these values and actually assign valid values in the form of as we'll see now some claimation. So here I give you uh binky uh which is a bit of claimation from our friend Nick Parlante at Stanford. If we could dim the lights unnecessarily dramatically. &gt;&gt; Hey Binky, wake up. It's time for pointer fun. What's that? Learn about pointers. Oh goody. Well to get started I guess we're going to need a couple pointers. Okay. This code allocates two pointers which can point to integers. &gt;&gt; Okay. Well, I see the two pointers, but they don't seem to be pointing to anything. &gt;&gt; That's right. Initially, pointers don't point to anything. The things they point to are called pointies, and setting them up is a separate step. &gt;&gt; Oh, right. Right. I knew that. The pointies are separate. So, how do you allocate a pointy? &gt;&gt; Oh, thanks. &gt;&gt; Okay. Well, this code allocates a new integer pointy, and this part sets X to point to it. &gt;&gt; Hey, that looks better. So, make it do something. &gt;&gt; Okay. I'll dreference the pointer X to store the number 42 into its pointy. For this trick, I'll need my magic wand of dreferencing. Your magic wand of dreferencing. Uh, that that's great. This is what the code looks like. I'll just set up the number. And hey, look, there it goes. So, doing a dreference on X follows the arrow to access its point. in this case to store 42 in there. Hey, try using it to store the number 13 through the other pointer Y. Okay, I'll just go over here to Y and get the number 13 set up and then take the wand of dreferencing and just Oh, hey, that didn't work. Say, uh, Binky, I don't think dreferencing Y is a good idea cuz, uh, you know, setting up the point is a separate step and, uh, I don't think we ever did it. H good point. &gt;&gt; Yeah, we we allocated the pointer Y, but we never set it to point to a point D. H very observant. &gt;&gt; Hey, you're looking good there, Binky. Can you fix it so that Y points to the same point as X? Sure, I'll use my magic wand of pointer assignment. Is that going to be a problem like before? No, this doesn't touch the pointies. It just changes one pointer to point to the same thing as another. Oh, I see. Now Y points to the same place as X. So, so wait, now Y is fixed. It has a pointy. So, you can try the wand of dreerencing again to send the 13 over. Okay, here it goes. Hey, look at that. Now, dreferencing works on Y. And because the pointers are sharing that one point, they both see the 13. Yeah, sharing. Uh, whatever. So, are we going to switch places now? Oh, look, we're out of time. But I can only imagine how long that took, Nick. But the key detail was that bad things happened to Binky when we did this line of code. Dreferencing a invalid pointer that had no true value assigned. It was just some garbage value. Now what's the solution? Well, as Nick proposed, just don't do that. And instead, at least do something sensible like assign X equal to Y. Not to make a copy of anything per se, but to literally point X at the same location in memory to point Y at the same location in memory as X. Then a line like this is perfectly valid. you can go to that address which happens to be the same as the 42 and that's why in the claimation form we saw that the 42 became a 13 instead. So again at the end of the day this is only demonstrative of these basic building blocks that we now have at our disposal but also how easy it is to do things incorrectly. So this is one of those with great power comes great responsibility. C is one of the languages that is incredibly high performing. It's so close to the hardware that you have so much control over the memory and operation that you can write really good, really fast code. And that's why even all these decades later, it's among the most omniresent programming languages in the world. At the same time, you can really screw things up. And so many of today's software that are hacked in some way or crashed for some reason is often because humans have just missed some simple mistake like this that happens to relate to memory. So more modern languages that we'll soon see like Python and if I in high school you studied Java. Uh you don't have this much control over the computer's memory. There's many more defenses put in place to protect you and me from ourselves so to speak. But you pay the price by some of those languages tend to be uh less uh slower and less performant. Yeah. What is the difference here that we're now playing with memory? This will become clear this week and next. And in fact, some of the examples on which we'll end today will motivate needing to have finer grain control over what's going on inside of the computer. When you want to deal with files, for instance, you're going to need to know a little something about memory addresses and where things are. when you want to build structures in memory beyond the complexity of an array. In fact, next week we're going to start building like two-dimensional structures in the computer's memory to represent the equivalent of like a family tree, for instance, or trees more generally that can store data in a more efficient way. Up until now, all we have is arrays. And with arrays, you can achieve something like binary search, but we're going to see there are things you can't do with arrays, especially if speed's important. &gt;&gt; But I I was saying like, for example, if you were to ask me to do this like say last week about this, I would be like x equals like 13 or something like assigning a variable. &gt;&gt; Correct. So last week if you just said int x= 13 or in y equals 42 or whatnot totally fine. And again this program sole purpose in life is to demonstrate how you can make mistakes in and of itself is not useful here but it's representative of how we're going to start using this syntax not only in this week's problem sets but next week as All right. So, with that claim made that we can do a lot of damage, let's consider how pointers and knowledge of memory addresses can actually solve some useful problems. Um, can we get one volunteer to come on up and help pour a drink? Come on up. All right. What is your name? Come on over. &gt;&gt; If you want to say a quick hello to the group. &gt;&gt; I'm Olivia. &gt;&gt; Okay. and and a little something about yourself. &gt;&gt; Oh, um I live in Canada. &gt;&gt; Okay, welcome. Well, come on over here, Olivia. And we have um two glasses. Well, really three glasses. So, we have these fancy ray bands that have cameras built in whereby we can sort of capture your point of view. If you're comfortable, we'll put these on. There's no lenses in them. The white light will mean we're recording. Hopefully, a memorable moment. This battery too is dead. All right. We don't have a backup for the backup, so we're going to pretend that this part never happened. So, &gt;&gt; Olivia, we have two glasses here for you. And I'm going to go ahead and pour uh some colored liquid into both. So, we've got some blue liquid here into this glass. All right. So, we'll fill this up here. And then in this one, we're going to go ahead and pour this orange liquid. And at this point in the story, I'm going to exclaim, "Oh no, I accidentally put the wrong liquid in the wrong glass. So, I got this backwards." So, what I'd like you to do is swap the values in these glasses so that the blue goes into that glass and the the orange goes into this glass &gt;&gt; without mixing it or &gt;&gt; without mixing it. So, well, you're hesitating. Why? &gt;&gt; Well, it would be hard to do unless you can like talk to the mic if you could. &gt;&gt; Oh, it would be like hard to do um without mixing the two because like you don't have anywhere to put the other one, &gt;&gt; of course. So, in the real world, this is not really solvable unless for instance, we have a temporary variable if you will, like an empty glass in which to do this. So, here is your third variable if you want to go ahead now and get the blue into that one and the orange into that one. Yeah. No pressure. All right. So, we're putting one value into the temporary variable. We're putting the other value into the original value. Okay. And now you're probably going to take Yep. I'm guessing the temporary value put it into the original variable and that that was very well done. If maybe we can give Olivia a round of applause for just that. Thank you. We have little parting gift for you here too. So goal here really being to create a memorable moment of like oh remember the time Olivia tried to swap two values she needed a temporary variable is the takeaway. So why is that? one code. If we wanted to do the same principle, we're going to need somewhere temporary to put one of those values before we can make this happen. The catch is though that if we don't do this intelligently, like it's just not going to work in C unless we take advantage of some of these new capabilities. So, in fact, I'm going to go over to VS Code here and I'm going to open up a program called swap.c that I wrote in advance whose purpose in life is simply to swap two variables values. So, I've got standard io.h at the top so I can use printf. I've got the prototype for a swap function which is uh might as well be Olivia in this case that's going to take two inputs A and B or two uh glasses and swap their values ultimately is its purpose inside of main though I'm going to do this I'm going to set two variables X and Y equal to one and two respectively I'm then just as uh point of clarification going to print out the value of X is such and such y is such and such then I'm going to call the swap function aka Olivia to swap the values x and y then I'm going to print out x is this and why is this? So that hopefully I'll see that they've indeed been swapped. At the bottom of this file, we have the actual swap function. And as you might expect, it takes two inputs, A and B, both of which are integers. So I could have called them anything I want. The first thing this function does is it grabs an empty glass called temp, puts a or the blue liquid into it. Then we put into A the value of B. So we've sort of lost the value of A at this point except that we did make a copy of it into temp. And then lastly, we put into B the temporary variable. And at the end, the temp variable is empty. Although technically it still has a copy of the value, but it's no longer useful because the job is done. And A has become B and B has become A. So I dare say this is like the literal translation of what Olivia just did. And I I like the logic of it. However, when I actually run this program, something goes ary. So let me go ahead and do make swap dot slap. And I'll maximize my window. I should see hopefully that X is one, Y is two, and then X is two, and Y is one. But no, like even though I literally translated into code what Olivia did, this didn't actually seem to work. And why is that? Well, it turns out that this version of the program is not right. In fact, because of issues of scope. And we've talked about scope before, generally in the context of like where a variable lives. We've said that a variable only exists in like the most recent curly braces that you opened up for it. And that was true. It's just sort of a colloquial way of describing what scope is. But scope comes into play here because it turns out that A and B, in so far as they are the arguments or parameters for the swap function, they have a different scope than X and Y. And that still follows the same definition. They're inside of different curly braces than X and Y are. So it seems that I may very well be swapping A and B, but I'm not having any impact on X and Y. So why is that? Well, in C, all this time, anytime you pass in arguments to a function, you are passing in those arguments by value, so to speak. You're literally passing in copies of the variables to the function you are calling. So what does this mean? Well, more concretely, if like this is a p photograph of a chunk of memory inside of the computer and we sort of zoom in as we've done before and we abstract away all of the bytes from top to bottom, what's really happening inside of the computer's memory is that we're using some of it for X and Y and some other memory for A and B. But how is that in fact happening? Well, it turns out to a question that came up before the break, memory in a computer is actually assigned in a somewhat deliberate fashion. And generally if we think of this rectangle is representing my computer's whole chunk of memory. Generally what happens when you run a program with dot slash something or on a Mac or PC by double clicking or on a phone by single tapping. What happens is all of the zeros and ones that were compiled by the company or person who made that program are loaded into the top of the computer's memory so to speak. This is just an artist rendition. There's no notion of top or bottom per se, but it's loaded into this chunk of memory at the very edge of the computer's memory aka machine code. the zeros and ones that compose the actual program. That's where they go. So, they're copied from the hard drive or the SSD, whatever you know it as, the persistent storage, and it's put there in the computer's RAM or random access memory, which is the faster memory where programs and files live while you are using them. Meanwhile, if your program or the program you're using has any global variables, global in the sense that they're defined outside of main and not inside of main or inside of other functions, they end up right below that machine code by convention, just so they're accessible everywhere. Meanwhile, there's this big chunk of memory below that called the heap. The heap is the chunk of memory that Maloc uses to allocate memory for you. So the first time you call Maloc, it's going to give you probably this chunk of memory. The second time this chunk, the third time, this chunk, and this chunk, and so forth, back to back to back in memory, but Maloc is going to manage all of that for you. You don't have to worry about where it's coming from, but it's coming more generally from this big heap area. But it turns out that the way computers are designed is that the heap of course sort of grows and therefore downward again even though there's no notion of up down inside of the computer but it grows in this direction. But it'd be nice to make use of this other area of memory and that's what's called the stack. And the stack is the area of memory that's used anytime you create local variables or call functions. So again, maloc uses memory from up here and functions and variables use memory down here just because this is what humans in a room decided years ago is how the computer's memory would be used. Therefore, the stack grows sort of vertically much like stacking trays in a cafeteria or the dining hall. They go from bottom to top in this model. All right. Well, let's consider for the moment just how the stack is used because we're using a main function in this program. We're using a swap function in this program. So I claim that those functions are going to use memory down here. Well, how are they going to use it? And how is this in fact bad for our current goal? Well, when you call the main function, it uses this chunk of memory here. Specifically, if main has any arguments like command line arguments, or if main has any local variables, they end up down here in memory. Meanwhile, when Maine calls swap, swap gets the next available chunk of memory above it, so to speak, in memory, and any of its arguments or local variables end up there. So when main uh when swap is done executing it's as though that memory disappears even though the zeros and ones are still there but the computer can now reuse that same chunk of memory later. Airgo garbage values when functions are being called going up and down conceptually that's why you're getting remnants of previous values in the computer's memory. But let's focus on main for a moment in Maine in this program. Recall that I declared two variables X and Y. X getting the value one Y getting the value two per these two lines of code. Then I called the swap function. So swap is going to get its own chunk of memory, more technically called a frame of memory. And inside of that frame, it has two arguments, A and B, and a local variable called temp. So I'll draw them as such. When you actually call swap passing in X and Y, X and Y are passed in by value, that is to say copy. So A becomes a copy of X and B becomes a copy of Y. So when this line of code or rather this uh prototype for swap just makes clear that it takes two arguments a and b both of which are integers in that same order. So x comma y uh lines up with a comma b. So what happens then inside of the swap function if a is a copy of x and b is a copy of y. Well at the moment it's equal to one and two respectively. But consider this first line of code int temp gets a. So temp takes on the value of a. Next line of code, A gets B. So A gets the value of uh B. Sorry, which just happened. Meanwhile, B gets the value of temp. So B gets the value of temp. Now temp still has a copy of one. So it's not quite analogous to the liquid because we're that glass is clearly now empty, but it does contain remnants of what it once did. But the key here is that A and B have successfully been swapped. If I were to print out A and B, I would see that they've been swapped. But what has obviously not been swapped in this story? No one has touched X or Y because when swap returns, especially if I don't even print out anything in swap, X and Y are unchanged. So A and B, the copies were swapped but not the original values. And that's the essence of the problem here with this represent this simple uh example of swapping values because I was passing by value. But as of today, we now have a solution to this problem. Because previously today, if I asked you to write a function that swapped two values, you could not physically do it in code because you had no way of expressing the solution to this problem. But now we have the ability to pass by reference. That is use pointers and addresses more generally to tell the function how to go to an address and do something there. How to go to another address and do something there. How do I express this syntactically? It's going to look a little scary at first glance, but it's just an application of today's new building blocks. This bad version of the program where a and b are both integers just needs to change to be addresses of integers. So give the function a sort of treasure map that leads it to the actual x and y by saying that a is now not going to be an int per se but the address of an int. b is going to be the address of an int. And now to use those values, you can say the following. int temp gets whatever is at location A, go to location A and put whatever is at location B, go to location B and put in the temp value. And here is a perfect example of where this use and overuse of the star or asterisk operator is just like cognitively confusing frankly because we use star for multiplication. We use it for declaring a pointer. We use it for dreferencing a pointer. Ideally, humans years ago would have come up with another symbol on the US English keyboard to represent these different ideas. But this is where we're at. We're using the star for different things in different contexts. So, this just tells the computer that A is going to be a pointer, an address of an int. This tells the computer that B is going to be the address of an int. This star when there's no data type to the left of it means go to that address, as does every other example thereof. So, what's happening this time? If we actually look at the diagram again, X and Y are still one and two respectively. Swap gets called. It gets now the values of the address of X and the address of Y. So pictorially we might draw that as following. A is pointing to X. B is pointing to two. I mean technically it's like ox123 and ox12 whatever, but who cares? We're just going to abstract it away now with actual arrows or pointers. The beauty of this now then is if we look at the swap function, int temp gets star a that means start at a and go there sort of shoots in ladder style familiar with the game and you find the value one. So you put the value one inside of temp which is why it's there. Now meanwhile this next line of code go to A's address go to B's address and copy the ladder to the former. So this means go to A. This means go to B where you find the two. So put the two where A is pointing. Lastly, go to B and put temp there. So that's easy. Go to B and point temp, which is why we now have the one. And the beauty of this now is that when swap is done executing, this memory, this frame sort of goes away conceptually, even though the zeros and ones are still there, but it's done being used, but we have now mutated the actual values of X and Y by giving them a proverbial treasure map of the addresses of X and Y, not copies of the values themselves. So hopefully this is the beginning of an answer to like why is this stuff useful? You can now solve a whole new class of problem and even more next week. Other uh questions though on any of the syntax pictures or the like. This is good use of pointers now instead of bad. All right. So with that new capability, let us consider here how things can still go wrong and why indeed with this power comes that responsibility. Well, if you consider now the bad version of the code is fixable via this good version of the code, we've still left a big glaring problem in the diagram itself. Designing something that grows this way against something that grows this way, like this is not going to end well. Why? Because the more you call maloc, the more memory that gets used here. The more functions you call, the more memory that gets used here. And at some point, like they will collide because the computer only has a finite amount of memory. So how do you avoid this situation? Like you kind of don't like you honestly just make sure that you minimize how much memory you're using by calling maloc only as much as you need to and not calling for a million bytes of memory just because you might need them. You only allocate what memory you need. and you try not to call functions again and again and again and again and again and again without them finally returning. So if you ever did something recursive a a couple weeks ago where you accidentally maybe called a function that never had a base case never divided and conquered and actually shrunk the problem you could overflow the stack or equivalently heap by just using too many frames of memory. So it's just a mistake in the programmer uh for the program themselves. So if you've ever heard these phrases now, which some of you might have heap overflow or stack overflow, there's a very popular website called stack overflow. And this is the etmology thereof. Like stack overflow refers to this representative big problem with computers memories if you're not mindful of how you're using the computer's memory. And this is just the way it is. If you've got finite amount of anything, that resource can eventually run out at which point program will crash or something else might very well go wrong. In fact, this is a general more specific examples of what are called buffer overflows. A buffer overflow is generally just a chunk of memory like an array that actually just gets uh overflowed with too many values like using allocating a small array and trying to put too many numbers therein. There's problems that um and in fact you can see this very simply if we take off those last of our training wheels. So for instance these are the functions in the CS50 library get int get string and so forth. um they're harder to take off these training. It's harder to take off these training wheels because C does not fundamentally make it that easy to manage memory yourself. So for instance, let's focus for just a moment on get int. I'm going to go over to VS Code here in just a second and let's go ahead and create our very simple program called getc whose purpose in life is to just get an integer much like CS50's own function. So, in get C, I'm going to propose that we write a program that does a little something like this. Uh, include CS50.h, include standard io.h, and then inside of main, let's go ahead and declare an int n. Uh, set it equal to get int, and we'll just ask the user for the value of n. Then let's go ahead and print out n's value verbatim back by just doing quote unquote comma n. This program is simply using the get in function in order to get an int and stored in n. So let's run it. Make get slashget. Type in a number like 50. Seems to work. And yes, I think this program is correct even though it is using the CS50 training wheel of get int. Let's stop using get int though. It turns out that you don't have to use get int if you instead use a function called scanf which scans formatted input which just means read something from the keyboard into memory. This is essentially what get string and get in using although that too is a bit of an oversimplification but let's use it here now is an opportunity to get rid of the training wheel of the CS50 library al together and down here let's do this instead of using get int let's declare a variable n but not give it a value yet let's now print out just a little prompt just to tell the human what we want we want them to type in a value for n and now let's use this new function called scanf and say scan from the user's keyboard an integer represented by percent i, our old friend and format code. And please put the integer that the human types in in the variable n. This is slightly buggy though because if I want a function like scanf to be able to change the value of a variable, just like the swap function, I can't just pass in n. I need to pass in the address of n here. In fact, let's take a moment now to go into the swap function which we knew to be buggy before and actually update it to match what we saw on the slides. I claim that the problem is that we're passing in originally x and y as one and two into the swap function but therefore we're passing in copies. But what if we change the swap function to take indeed the address of an int and the address of an int. Let me change my prototype accordingly because that two must be changed. Then when I change this function to take in those pointers, I need to change my code to dreference them. But there's one last thing I need to do. I'm still on this line of swap passing in X and Y, which is literally the values X and Y. If I want to pass in the address of X and the address of Y, what other operator do I now need? the amperand x and the amperand y to pass in sort of the treasure map the pointer to those two variables locations. So if I open up my terminal window now do make swap on this version dot / swap cross my fingers now this new and improved version of swap as claimed does actually swap the values the key being swap now has access not to x and y per se but to the addresses of x and y. So if we now close out swap and go back to get, here is the same principle applied to scanf. If scanf exists and it comes with c, its purpose in life is to scan an integer from the keyboard and put it somewhere you want. You can't just give it the variable name because it's going to get a copy of whatever garbage value is in there. You have to say put this answer in the address at the address of n itself. So lastly after this, let me go ahead and print out n colon and then percent i again as a format code back slashn, n. This line is just my prompt because I just want the human to know what they're being asked for. This line is printing out n colon and then the actual value. So the only interesting part here is that I'm declaring a variable called n, but I'm not giving it a value myself, but I'm using scanf instead of get int to scan so to speak an integer from the keyboard and put it at the address of n. So that scanf has access to that value. So if I now do make get without any cs50 library/get, let's type in the number 50, I indeed see the number spit back at me. And just to be clear, print f uses these format codes of percent i and so forth. Scanf uses essentially the same format code. So that's why I'm using percent i in both places. Both functions per their documentation are designed to do just that. So this is great. We've gotten rid of get int. Catch is that getting rid of get string is much much harder. Why? Well, let's try another example. Let's go ahead and try to get a string from the user instead of just an int. So we'll call it string s. But wait a minute. CS50 library is not included. So we need to use the actual thing that this is. So char star s means give me a variable that's going to store a string. Let's go ahead and print out that prompt just to prompt the user for s just for clarity. Now let's use scanf and scan a string with percent s and put it at location s. Then let's go ahead and print out just a reminder that the value of s is now that passing in s. Now there's something a little bit bit different here. Notice that I've deliberately not used an amperand before this s why even though I did before the n. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So I want to pass in the address of the string which is if I may like already s like s is by definition the address of some string that is what a char star is or rather it's the address of a character but we know already that if you lead it to the first character whatever function can find the end of it thanks to the null character except that that's not going to be wholly true here but I don't want to do amperand here because if s is an address doing amperand s would be the address of an address which is actually a thing called a pointer to a pointer but none of at today, but it's going to be correct as written here. N was an integer, so I needed the address of it. S is already a pointer by definition. It's a char star, so I don't use the amperand here. But the problem is this. If I now do makeget dot slashget, and let's type in a word like how about hi. Okay, it did work. Let me try something even bigger like hi. Let's just hold this down a lot. Uh, let's do how about this? A really long string. Oh, come on. Let's type in a really long string like hi. And it's always a gamble to see if I've done this long enough, but okay, it didn't break. Okay, you'd like to think that this is correct, but let's go ahead and do this. Valgrind of get uh slashget enter. Let me maximize my screen. Oh, uh, and let me go ahead and type in a value for S. While Valgren is running, I'm going to type in hi exclamation point. And now lot, uh, let's actually scroll down to the scroll up to the top of this. A lot of error seems to have happened here. Use of uninitialized value of size eight. Use of uninitialized value of size eight. Like a lot of stuff is going wrong here apparently on it looks like maybe line four, which is quite early in the program. And in fact, well, actually that's not it. Uh, line multiple lines of code here we're having issues with. But why? Well, let's focus on the code here alone for a moment. Line five is giving me what? A variable called S. That's the address of a char. But what is S right now? Like what value is in there? &gt;&gt; It's a garbage value because there's no equal sign involved. I'm just saying give me space. Like give me eight bytes, 64 bits to store the address of a character. But if I don't use the equal sign and actually put anything there, it is in fact just some garbage value. The print f is uninteresting. It's just printing out son. Scanf though is saying go to this address and store the characters that the human typed in. But that means like following the wiggly line that we drew on the screen before because we have no idea where S is pointing. It might be there, there, there, there. You're putting the string at a bogus location in memory. You haven't actually allocated memory. So when you then try to print it, you're just trusting that you're going to memory again that you control. So what is the solution here? Well, there's a few different ways we could solve this. We could do something like this. Actually allocate space for like four bytes so that the human can safely type in uh so the human can safely type in high exclamation point with room for the null character. We could change S to actually be an array of size four because we can treat arrays as though they're addresses and addresses as though they're arrays. It turns out that syntactic sugar really goes in both directions. This too would solve that problem. Or better still, we wouldn't use scanf at all because how do I know how many characters the human's going to type in? Like this was a question too that came up during break. Well, high will fit in four bytes with the null character. By will not. So maybe I need five. Well, what if they type in a longer word? Six. Well, maybe the longer words, seven. Well, maybe a hundred or maybe a thousand or 10,000 or 100,000 or a million. Like, at some point, you've got to draw a line in the sand and say you can't type in something longer than this. And you see this in applications all the time. Like on the web, you can only type in so many characters sometimes into forms. And that's for various reasons. Among them is this. Get string though will handle almost an infinite number of characters because the way we implemented get string is to take baby steps through the input. When you type in a word on the keyboard or even a paragraph on the keyboard, we get strings implementers call maloc essentially again and again and again and again just asking for one more bite if we need it, one more bite if we need it, one more bite so that you don't have to worry about doing that. The problem is if you were to write code yourself without the CS50 library or someone else's equivalent library, you have to decide like how many bytes do you want to allow and you have to trust that the human is not going to mess around and type in more values than you actually expect. So what's happening with all of these examples thus far is that if you think of your memory as kind of a minefield of garbage values wasn't a problem when we declared n to have a value of 50 because we told scanf to go to that address and put the number 50 there and it fits. That's fine because an int is always four bytes in this case. Who knows how many times the human is going to hit the keyboard when typing in a string. Could be three or four or a million or anything else. So when we declare S here to be a pointer, it takes up eight bytes per the Oscar the grouch Oscar is the grouch here whereby that's eight garbage values that collectively represent that address at the moment because we've not assigned it to any other value. So if we try to tell scanf go to this address and store high or anything else there like who knows where it's going to end up in memory hence the squiggly line again and the program will quite often crash. I didn't get it because I didn't type in long enough of a string, but it would eventually, if I tried hard enough, crash because you're touching memory that you yourself did not allocate as an array via maloc or some other mechanism. So, what is the solution? Honestly, like don't use C for user input like this unless you're prepared to implement that complexity yourself. Use the CS50 library or some other library. This too is why in two weeks we're going to switch to Python because Python makes life so much easier when it comes to basic things like getting user input as do many other modern languages. But those languages just have code that other humans have written to solve these problems for you. So these problems exist but they'll be abstracted away for you. All right, let's tie this now together with where we began, which was to convey ultimately that we want to have uh the ability now to actually access files. And we introduce now a topic called file IO. IO for input and output. A file is just a bunch of bytes that are stored on disk, where disk might mean a hard drive, the thing that spins around with a platter with lots of zeros and ones on it, or an SSD, a solid state drive, which is u no moving parts nowadays and generally where our data is stored long term. Whereas RAM, random access memory, the y, the yellow pictures we've been drawing, is volatile. That is to say, when you lose power, the battery dies, you lose everything in RAM. On a hard drive or a solid state drive, that's persistent storage or nonvolatile storage, which means when the power goes out, thankfully, you don't lose all of your documents and essays and so forth, whether it's on your Mac or PC or somewhere in the cloud. But we haven't yet seen any code via which you yourselves can create files. Like literally every program we've written, even the phone book example last time when I typed in names and numbers, they got deleted as soon as the program quit and ended. So with File IO though, we have the ability now to start creating, saving, editing, deleting files much like you would from the file menu of Google Docs, Microsoft Word, or the like. Here are just some of the functions that come with the programming language C that allow you to open files aka FOP, close files, aka Flo, print to a file, scan from a file, read a file, write to a file, lots of different functions, some of which we'll explore this coming week. But why don't we first use them to solve a problem here in VS Code. So, let me go ahead and close get.c. Let's go ahead and open up a new program called phonebook.c, C, but implement a persistent version of it ultimately that doesn't just get deleted from memory when the program quits. Let's go ahead and only because it will make life easier, let's include the CS50 library still for this. Let's include standard io.h for this. And let's include string.h for this. Then inside of main, no command line arguments, let's go ahead and open a file called phonebook.csv. CSV stands for commaepparated values. Many of you have probably used them in the real world. They're like very lightweight spreadsheets where things are effectively stored in rows and columns where the columns are represented by just commas between values. And we'll see this in just a moment. How do you open a new file called phonebook.csv? Well, I'm going to do file star file equals fop phone.csv. And then I'm going to do quote unquote w for write. So what's going on here? fop is opening a file whether or not it exists yet called phonebook.csv and it's opening it in such a way that I will be allowed to write to it. Hence the quote unquote w per the documentation it means I can write to this file and not just read it. The return value is going to be stored in a variable called file. All lowercase by convention but that file is technically a strct called file in all caps. It's a little weird. It's among the few things that is fully capitalized in C. It doesn't mean it's a constant or anything like that. It's just how someone implemented it years ago. This is giving me a pointer to essentially the contents of that file. That's a bit of a white lie. Technically giving you a pointer to a chunk of memory that represents that file, but for all intents and purposes, it's a pointer to the file for now. Now, let's go ahead and ask the user for a name and number to add to this phone book. Let's do charar name equals get string uh quote unquote name to prompt the human for that. Charar number. Let's prompt them for that. and do it with this. And I could be using the string data type, but I'm trying to at least remove what training wheels we don't technically need anymore. And now that we've got a name and number in variables, let's print them to the file. That is, let's save them to the file. Instead of print f, we're going to use frrint f, we're going to specify what file we want to print to in case we have multiple ones open. What do I want to print? A string followed by a string followed by a new line. ergo comma separated values one after the other per line. Then I'm gonna pass in the values name and number respectively. And now I'm going to go ahead and do f close to close that file so that it's effectively saved. All right. So let me go ahead and demonstrate first that phone book.csv does not really exist. It's empty initially. Let me go ahead and scooch it over to the right here so we can see both at the same time. I'm now going to do make phone book. Enter. So far so good. Dot slashphonebook and let me go ahead and type in for instance uh let's see uh my name 617495 1000 and watch the top right of your screen as the program f writes to it and f closes the contents. All good. All right, let's run it again because maybe like the iOS app or the Android app, I'm adding new friends to my phone book here. So, I'm going to do dot /phonebook and I'm going to go ahead and uhoh, top right just got turned blank. Well, let's try this. Kelly 6174951,000. Enter. Okay, she's back. Let me run it again. Dot phone book gone. Well, what's going on here? It's not persisting at least as long as I would like. It seems to be the case that like writing to a file means literally rewrite the file. So if you use W, you're going to write to the file, but literally starting at the first bite. If you want to be smart about it and append to the file, well, per the documentation for FOP, you instead use quote unquote A for append instead of quote unquote W for write. This is a convention in other languages, too. All right, let's start this over. Let me go ahead and recompile this program. Make phone book. Now, let me do /phonebook. I'll type in my name again first. 6174951000. Enter. So far so good. Phonebook. So far so good. Kelly 6174951000. Enter. And now we're on our way. In fact, I can close this file. I can close this file. I can then open up And indeed, it has persisted. And in fact, if I downloaded this file onto my Mac or my PC, I could then rightclick it or double click on it and probably open it in Microsoft Excel or Apple Numbers. I could import it into Google Sheets or any number of other spreadsheet tools because now I am persisting and writing files of my own. questions on any of the techniques we just tried out here. If we really want to be nitpicky, like technically I should fix one bug or missed opportunity if I open up phonebook.c, I'm going to propose that as with any use of pointers and addresses more generally. Here too, something could be wrong like maybe I'm just out of space and so fop can't physically open the file for me. So here too, I should check if file equals equals null. Okay, fine. return one and then maybe at the very bottom here I return zero to make clear nope nope if I get this far all is well. So in short anytime you are dealing now with pointers you should be checking the return values to see if all in fact went well. Yeah &gt;&gt; yes everything we are using is part of standard io.h H which is wonderfully useful now because it has not just print f but frint f and so forth as well. Good questions. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yes. So we have how are pointers used in this code? The short answer is you have to use pointers because this is how C designed files to work. So, we couldn't really introduce you all to files, file IO in week one or two or three because we had it. We'd have to introduce like this stupid little character to you and you'd be like, "What does this mean? It's not multiplication." Because the way file IO works is that when you open a file, you are essentially handed the address of that file in memory. That's an oversimplification. You're technically handed the address of a data structure in memory that references the file actually on disk. But for all intents and purposes, as I said, this gives you a pointer to the contents of the file. And if you want to write to the file, you need to then do use frint f in this case, tell it what file to write to. So you can go there and then store something like this string with these values plugged in. So in short, in C without pointers, you just can't do file IO unless it's abstracted away for you by some library. Good question. Other questions on file IO? All right. Well, let me do one other example here that's a little reminiscent of things we see all the time on our phones and laptops and desktops, like these progress bars for like video players. And you're all probably generally familiar with the term like buffering. If only because YouTube and other apps when they are slow or you have a slow internet connection, they might say buffering dot dot dot. Well, what does that mean? Well, a buffer is just a chunk of memory. More specifically, it's often an array that is only a finite size that stores bytes of stuff. Well, in the context of a video player, for instance, this red line here, which represents you're that way through that much through the video, it's an array that stores like the next few bytes of a video. And ideally, if you have a fast enough connection, when you hit play, those bytes keep getting downloaded and added to the buffer. And hopefully, you don't finish watching the bytes that have been downloaded before more bytes have been downloaded. So, a buffer is just a chunk of memory or more specifically an array in a language like C. Well, just to demonstrate how else you can do things with file IO, let me propose that we write a simple little program that is our own implementation of the CP program, the copy program that we've used a few times already that allows you in your terminal window to copy one file to another, likening it to this idea of a progress bar, where bite by bite, you want to do something, namely in this case, copy it, not watch it instead. So, let me go in VS Code and code up a program called CP.C. And in in this program, I'm going to go ahead and going to then give myself a main function that this time does take finally a command line argument via int arg c and our old friend string uh arg v which today we can now reveal to be also just a char star. In fact, this is how we could now technically write the declaration for main because string no longer exists without the CS50 library per se. So that's really what's been going on this whole time. Now, let me go ahead and do this. I want to be able to write a program that takes two command line arguments actually. The name of the file to copy and the name of the new file to create from it. So let's go ahead and create a file using the same syntax as before called src for short, source as is a convention. And let's open a file using uh the file name argv bracket one. So the first word the human types and let's go ahead and open it in read mode because I want to read the source and write to the destination. My next file file star dst destination for short will be fopen of argv 2, quote unquote write. Now why one and two and not zero and one in zero is the name of the program which is not interesting. One and two will contain the next two words that the human types. Now let me propose that I want to copy this file from source to destination bite by bite similar in spirit to a buffer like this where you're just grabbing from the internet one bite of the video at a time so as to watch it. In this case I want to copy it. So how can I do this? Well we don't have a data type per se for representing a bite eight bits. However, a common convention is to actually use our new friend type defaf and simply declare bite to be something significant or something specific. So, let me declare a type uh called bte. And what is a bite going to be? Well, it ideally is just a char because a char we know is one bite or eight bits. But recall that chars can be treated as integers and integers of course can be positive and negative. So even though this is a little esoteric, technically I want to define a bite to be what we'll call an unsigned char, which is probably a keyword you haven't yet seen. But it just tells the compiler that this char that is this sequence of eight bits cannot be interpreted as a negative number because I am not doing anything with math. These are just raw bytes or eight bits. So now down here I can give myself a bite and I'll call it B for short. And now I'm going to write a loop similar in spirit to what YouTube and other players are probably doing which just iterates over a file bite by bite making in our case a copy thereof. So while I am reading from this file into this bite the size of one bite one at a time into this destination. Go ahead and check that I've read at least one. So while the return value of a new function called fad is not equal to zero go ahead and oops sorry source go ahead and call fright another new function going to that address of the bite grabbing the size of it which happens to be one but I'll use size of for consistency grab one such bite and write it to destination this is a huge mouthful admittedly the last thing of which I need to do is close the destination so as to save it close the original file the source. Um, but this huge mouthful which you'll get more familiar with the next problem set is essentially saying on line 12 while I can read one bite at a time, write on line 14 that bite to the file. Implementing essentially this idea of the red progress bar going bite to bite to bite reading one bite at a time reading from one file the source writing to the other the destination. And here too to your question earlier like why why pointers? This is the way file IO is done. You have to be able to express go to this address, go to this file if you want to get data from it or to it. And a minor refinement too, technically when you open in files, if you know they're binary files, that is zeros and ones and not asy or unicode text files, you can technically tell fop write and read in binary mode. So there's no mistaking the bits for something other than raw data, an image or otherwise. All right. So, if I go ahead now and do make cp, it so far compiles. Let's try this out. So, here again is phonebook.csv. Whoops. Here, that's phonebook.c. Here again is phonebook.csv with two of us, David and Kelly. Let's try to make a copy of this file as follows. CP. So, this is my version of the copy program, not the one that comes with the system. Let's copy phonebook.csv into copy.csv. Enter. Let's open now the copy of the CSV. Enter. And voila. Thank god like it actually worked. I have made a bite forbyte copy of this file using syntax that was not available to us until today. So who cares? And what's the motivation? Well, it's a lot more fun to treat not just text files and these tiny little examples, but to actually play with real world examples. And in the next problem set, among the things you'll do is experiment with BMP files, bitmapped files, which essentially just means a grid of pixels top to bottom, left to right, much like our cat uh that our volunteers at classes start created for us. With a bit mapap file, you'll store in files literal uh sequences of pixels or dots, each of which is going to be represented with a specific color, a red value, a green value, and a blue value. And among the things you'll be able to do given such beautiful photos as this is as the weeks bridge down by the Charles River is actually make your own Instagram-l like filters to apply to photos like this understanding now as you do or soon will understand to be able to iterate over the file top to bottom left to right over each of the bytes therein and somehow mutate the bites to look a little bit different. So if this is the original photo, you might be able to make it all grayscale by changing the Rs, the G's and the B's to smaller values somehow that are simpler values that are just black and white and gray tones. You might take that same photo as input and give it more of a sepia tone like an old school photograph instead. You might actually reflect it like actually put these bytes over here and these bites over here so as to create the inverse of the image by reflecting it over the the vertical axis here. Or you might even blur the image like this. This is kind of a common feature in a lot of photo editing programs to either blur or deblur. Well, you can sort of do a little bit of math and make every pixel a little fuzzier by kind of clouding what the human is actually seeing. Or feeling more comfortable, you can actually write code now that you know how to manipulate files and addresses thereof and actually do edge detection and find the salient characteristics of something like the bridge to distinguish it from the sky and actually find filter-like edges like these. So, those are just some of the problems that you're going to solve over the coming week's problem set and manipulating ultimately files like these as well as JPEGs. And the last thing we thought we'd end on is a sort of computer science joke which for better or for worse, you're now getting more and more able to interpret. So, I'll leave you dramatically with this here famous joke. Oh, that's more laughter than usual. All right, that's it for week four. We will see you next time. five already uh wherein we will focus today on data structures which is a topic we've touched on a little bit in simp in simple form but today we'll dive all the more deeply and for better or for worse this is our last week on C uh next week of course we transition to Python which is a so-called higher level programming language which is really frankly just going to make our lives a lot easier we're going to be able to solve a lot of the same problems but so much more quickly as humans but not necessarily as we'll see as fast when we run the code as the computer might have if we were still using a lower level language like C. So indeed thematic over this weekend next is going to be the theme we've seen before of tradeoffs. But before we get there, why don't we focus on a couple of data structures that you might encounter in the real world. Uh namely stacks and cues. Let's learn some facts about both of these. If we could dim the lights dramatically. Once upon a time, there was a guy named Jack. When it came to making friends, Jack did not have the knack. So, Jack went to talk to the most popular guy he knew. He went up to Lou and asked, "What do I do?" Lou saw that his friend was really distressed. "Well," Lou began, "Just look how you're dressed. Don't you have any clothes with a different look?" "Yes," said Jack. "I sure do. Come to my house and I'll show them to you." So they went off to Jack's and Jack showed Lou the box where he kept all his shirts and his pants and his socks. Lou said, "I see you have all your clothes in a pile. Why don't you wear some others once in a while?" Jack said, "Well, when I remove clothes and socks, I wash them and put them away in the box. Then comes the next morning and up I hop. I go to the box and get my clothes off the top." Lou quickly realized the problem with Jack. He kept clothes, CDs, and books in a stack. When he reached for something to read or to wear, he chose the top book or underwear. Then when he was done, he would put it right back. Back it would go on top of the stack. I know the solution, said a triumphant Lou. You need to learn to start using a queue. Lou took Jack's clothes and hung them in a closet. And when he had emptied the box, he just tossed it. Then he said, "Now Jack, at the end of the day, put your clothes in the left when you put them away. Then tomorrow morning when you see the sunshine, get your clothes from the right, from the end of the line. Don't you see? said Lou. It will be so nice. You'll wear everything once before you wear something twice. And with everything in cues in his closet and shelf, Jack started to feel quite sure of himself. All thanks to Lou and his wonderful queue. All right. Our thanks to Professor Shannon Deval at Elon University who kindly put together that animation. And it's meant to paint a picture of a couple of things that we've all encountered in the real world. But more technically, what we just saw were what are known as abstract data types whereby they're data structures in some sense, but it's really about the design thereof. What characteristics or features or functionality these structures offer irrespective of how they are implemented in terms of lower level implementation details, which is to say you can implement, as we'll see, cues and stacks in any number of ways, which are going to have real world implications for how you can actually use them and what kinds of problems you can solve with them. So let's consider for instance Q's in the first place. So a Q is something you sort of experience all the time. Anytime you go to a store uh go to uh some event in for which you have to line up in a so-called queue. You'd ideally like there to be some fairness property about that queue such that if you got in line first you get into the store first. You get to check out first or some other such goal. Meanwhile, the person who got there last actually is at the end of the line and stays at the end of the line and therefore gets served or enters in at the end. So Q's have what a computer scientist would say is a FIFO property. First in first out. That is if you're the first person in line, you're the first person to get out of line. And for many problems, that is a good solution. Certainly if you're concerned with fairness. Um but more technically, AQ has what we'll call two operations. NQ, which is a fancy way of saying getting in line, and DQ, a fancy way of saying getting out of the line from the front of it. But those two operations, if you think about it in code, could it be implemented with different actual details? And by that I mean this here is one way that we could go about implementing in CC code a que for a bunch of people or persons who want to line up for something. So for instance we'll decree that this queue can hold no more than 50 people like that's the physical capacity and then we define a structure which we've done a couple of times in the past whereby this structure has not only an array of persons that we'll call people and that will be as big as is the capacity. So this is an array of size 50 for 50 such persons. And then we're going to propose that we also keep track in this implementation of a queue of the current size of the queue. So we're going to make a distinction between the capacity like how many total people can be there and the size like actually how many people are in line at that moment in time so that you know which of the spots in the array are effectively empty. And we're going to call that whole structure a Q. Now the catch with this particular implementation in code of a Q is what there is inherent in it a a limitation something you just kind of have to deal with and I see you nodding what what's your instinct for this &gt;&gt; for example 50 students &gt;&gt; okay well I think you hit the nail on the head in that it's only for 50 students or 50 people which means if a 50irst person wants to get into line you literally have no means of remembering them in this data structure so how do you solve that well we could just recompile our code after changing the 50 to like 51 or maybe 500 or 5,000. But there there's this trade-off because you could still be undershooting the total number of people trying to get into maybe a big concert in the case of an extreme. But at at the same time, if you overallocate memory using 5,000 locations in memory, what if only a few people show up? Now you're just wasting memory. And certainly at the end of the day, you only have a finite amount of memory in the computer. So you kind of have to decide a priority like before compiling your code, how big is this structure going to be? how much space are you going to waste? And in the end, it's all sort of stupid. It would be ideal if instead we could just grow the queue as needed and shrink it. Essentially asking the operating system, as we started doing last week, for more memory and then giving it back if we don't actually need that memory, which is to say can't really do an array in this static sense. And by static, I mean we're literally deciding in advance at compilation time how big this thing is going to be. As an aside, this is also a bit annoying for implementing a queue because you have to somehow keep track of who is at the head of the queue, the front of the queue, because as you start plucking people off, you need to remember who's the next person effectively. But there are ways in code that we could solve this. So let's consider an alternative to a queue which gives us very different properties, namely a stack. And we saw that in the animation whereby uh Jack used a stack to put his clothes into a box so that every time he got dressed he sort of took the sweater from the top from the top from the top and might never wear anything other than black as a result. If he does a wash before he actually reaches the blue and the red sweater there. So a stack as we've just seen has a LIFO property to it. Last in first out. So, if I do a load of laundry and I plop some more sweaters on this stack, well, I'm presumably going to use the last sweater that went in first as opposed to trying to create a mess and like, you know, pull the bottommost sweater out, which is just going to be a little more effort than uh than it would be otherwise from just taking it from the top. So, sometimes last and first out doesn't give you maybe this fairness property you might want for other problems, but it does give you an efficiency, a convenience certainly. So, maybe that might be compelling. And stacks are actually everywhere, too. If you've checked your Gmail recently, odds are you've opened up gmail.com or outlook.com and you've looked at your inbox. And where does the new mail by default end up? At the top. At the top. At the top. And I dare say all of us are guilty of sort of neglecting emails that fall below the break or onto the next page and sort of focusing only on the last in and therefore replying to it first out, which isn't great maybe for the senders of those emails, but it's just how those user interfaces are implemented quite often unless you override those default settings. So how might we implement a stack? Well, we need to implement more technically two fundamental operations. The analoges of NQ and DQ in the world of stacks are called push, which means push something onto the top of the stack, and pop, which means remove something from the top of the stack also. And the the team in the cafeterias and dining halls on campus do this all day long. Any of the cafeterias or dining halls that have stacks of trays, of course, you put the first tray at the bottom and then the next tray and the next tray and the next tray. And which tray do all of you pick up? Well, presumably the one on the very top because it's even harder to grab the bottommost tray than it would be for something like a sweater. As a result, there's maybe undesirable properties like maybe no one ever gets to the nasty tray at the very bottom of the stack because we're constantly replenishing the top ones. But thanks to gravity, like that just happens to be the most appropriate data structure in the real world for distributing things like trays in a cafeteria. So, how might we implement that idea in code? Well, funny enough, we can pretty much use the exact same structure. We could just rename Q to stack because at the end of the day we need to keep track of some number of people and maybe people's is a weird sort of analog here but we kept everything else the same so why not that but the size is also something we still need to remember and it turns out it's a little easier to implement a stack in this way because you could always remove it from the end of the array end of the array and the first thing that went into the stack the first in can always stay at location zero for instance but ultimately we could implement it in this way but we have the same darn limitation You can still only put 50 sweaters, 50 trays, 50 people into that stack data structure. So this is just one implementation approach. But that doesn't mean that's necessarily a limitation of stacks and cues. They're abstract in the sense that we could do better. We could maybe start to manage our own memory, move away from statically defining the total size of this array and just start allocating and deallocating, that is growing and shrinking the data structure instead. which is to say we can make these abstract data types much less abstract with actual implementations. Let's consider a data structure that we saw an abstract data type that we saw early on