into a function in C and Scratch for that matter is a so-called positional parameter. And a parameter is the same thing as an argument, but generally when you're looking at the function from the functions perspective, it's a parameter that it accepts. But when you're calling the function and passing in an input, you call it typically an argument, but they refer to essentially the same thing. And all of the parameters we've been passing into functions thus far have been positional in the sense that the order matters. the first thing, then the second thing, then the third thing, and so forth. For instance, with print f, the first thing has to be the quoted string, maybe with a placeholder, and then if there's another argument after the comma, that can be the second argument, the third argument, and so forth. But it turns out Python additionally supports what are called named parameters, whereby you don't have to rely only on the order in which you're enumerating the arguments to a function. And that's helpful because some functions, especially in the real world, when you start using other people's libraries that have lots of functionality, they might not take just one or two arguments. They might take four arguments, 10 arguments, maybe even more. And it can just be unwieldy to have to remember the precise order of all those arguments. You're just asking for trouble if you're going to screw up or a colleague is going to get the order out of uh out of whack. So with name parameters, you can actually be explicit with Python and tell it what argument you are trying to pass in by giving it an actual name. So let me go over to VS Code here and propose that we use this for really the simplest of programs in order to override that default new line that we seem to be getting for free just by calling print. In other words, let me go ahead here and clear my terminal window. Let me close. C and focus only on hello.py for just a moment. And let's make it much simpler like the very first version and just print out using Python's print function, not print f quote unquote hello world close quote. And now here I'm going to do Python of hello.py. Enter. And we still see that the cursor moves to the next line. The dollar sign moves to the next line because I'm automatically getting a new line. Well, what if you don't want that? How can you override that behavior? Well, you can actually use a named parameter in Python. And I can go up here and add a second argument that if it were just something like uh this, that would literally print out the word this because it's just another string. But if I give it a name like end equals quote unquote, I can override the default behavior of the Python print function by changing the value of its end parameter to be the so-called empty string, quote unquote, which means literally there's nothing there. Watch what happens now. If I run Python of hello.py and hit enter, the dollar sign is weirdly and sort of in the ugly way on the same line, just like it was when I made the mistake in C in week one of omitting the backslash. That is to say, what the default value of this end parameter really is is quote unquote back slashn. And I can make it explicit by changing my code as such. I'm going to go ahead and rerun python of hello.py. And now the cursor is back on the next line. And not that this is that useful other than overriding that default, but you could do fun things like exclamation point, exclamation point, exclamation point if you really want print to be excited to print some things for you. And if I now run Python of hello.pay a third time, now you see that it's ending with exclamation point, exclamation point, exclamation point. Looks a little stupid with the dollar sign. So you could even toss in a new line there. Run it yet again. And now we sort of get both of those there. But I would say the common case is to use that end uh named parameter simply to override it. So how do you learn more about these kinds of things? Well, if you go to the official documentation for Python, which is a thing more so than with C, like if you want to learn more about Python and the functions it offers and the arguments it takes, you go to the official documentation uh docs.python.org. This is essentially analogous to the so-called manual pages or man pages that CS50 has a version of, but there is no one de facto source for those man pages. Several different versions of them exist in the while. Whereas Python itself as a community maintains its own official documentation. So for instance, if you go to a specific URL like this ending in functions.html, you'll see an exhaustive list of all of the functions that come with Python besides just the print function. And we'll see a bunch of more today. If specifically you scroll down to the print uh documentation, you'll see something that's a little arcane that looks like this. But this is representative of a Python prototype, if you will, often also called a signature that just tells you the name of a function and then how many and what type of arguments it takes. So how to read this? Well, the print function takes some number of objects. So in Python specifically this syntax of star objects just means zero or more objects whatever that is like a number or a string or something else the stuff you want to print out. After that if you start using named parameters you can specify what the default separator is the separator between arguments to print. So, recall that when I did quote unquote hello, comma, quote unquote, uh, or quote unquote hello, comma, answer, that was separated automatically for us by a single space, even without my hitting the space bar inside of my quotes. That's because the default value here is in fact a single space. The default value for end, as promised, is indeed back slashn. And then there's some other stuff related to file IO that print can also deal with, but more on that perhaps another time. There's one curiosity here. In Python, it turns out that you can use double quotes or single quotes around strings, where in C, it was much more regimented. Double quotes are for strings and single quotes are for chars, characters only, single characters. It doesn't matter in Python which one you use so long as you're consistent. And stylistically, you should really pick one and go with it. And the only time you should really alternate between the two is maybe if you want to put like an apostrophe for some human's name inside of double quote inside of single quotes or something like that. But generally you have a little more flexibility in Python. And you'll see in different languages Python community tends to use single quotes at least in the documentation. The JavaScript world tends to use single quotes. Um we in CS50 often use double quotes just for consistency with what we do in C. But any uh community or company would typically have its own style guide that dictates which one you should use if only for consistency questions then on this here print function as just representative of all of the docs that you'll see. All right. Well, let's take a quick look at variables. We've used these a few times already, but let's focus in a little more detail on what's actually different in Scratch. If you wanted to create a variable called counter and set it equal to zero, you would use this orange puzzle piece here. In C, you would do something like this. The type of the variable, the name of the variable, and then set it equal to the initial value semicolon. In Python, it's going to be a little similar, but you can probably guess where we're going with this. How is this line of code probably about to change? Yeah, &gt;&gt; good. We're not going to bother with int or the data type more generally. We're just going to say counter cuz obviously like a smart interpreter can just figure it out from context that you're putting a zero in there. It's obviously an integer. And what else is about to go away? The semicolon. So this is the C version. And voila, this now is the Python version. And this is as silly as this example is, it's kind of representative of how languages like Python just tend to be a little more programmer friendly because you just type less and get the same work done. All right. So if we wanted to do something now in Scratch like increment the counter by one, you would use this puzzle piece here. In C, we could do something like this. In Python, it's going to be almost exactly the same except of course no semicolon. In C, we could alternatively do this. And you can also do this in Python. Uh in C though, you could also do what other technique &gt;&gt; plus+ I'm sorry, but Python has taken that away from us. So if you got into the habit of using plus+ or minus minus, that's great. Use them in C all you want. In Python, they just don't exist. So you'll see this more commonly instead as the heruristic. All right. What about the various types that exist in Python? Because even though you don't have to specify the types when declaring your variables, they do in fact actually exist underneath the hood. And it's worth knowing a little something about them because not knowing will lead often to some form of bug. So in C, we had types like this bull, char, double, float, int, long, and string. The last of which was thanks to the CS50 library. that last week we would have started calling uh a string charst star instead which it still is a data type the address of some char. In Python we're going to whittle this list down to a subset of those essentially whereby we still have bulls we still have floats we still have ins and we do have strings but they're literally called stirs str. So it's not a CS50 thing. The Python community call strings str. But absent from this list is any mention of star not to mention charst star. There are no pointers in Python. And indeed, as powerful as I'd hope you found uh weeks four and five to be, I dare say you also found them incredibly frustrating and challenging and want to yield bugs in your code because with that power of memory management comes a whole slew of potential mistakes that you can make. And that's true not just for CS50 students, but for programmers, adult programmers, full-time programmers around the world. And so among the other features of languages like Python is they try to take away certain features of languages like C that were just too dangerous in the first place might be wonderfully powerful might help you solve problems more quickly more precisely but if they tend to do more damage than they're worth sometimes it's worth just abstracting those details away. Similarly Java has references as some of you might know but does not have pointers per se. You can't go poking around arbitrary locations in memory in the same way that you can with C. So, let's take some of these data types out for a spin and see what's the same and what's different. Let me go back to VS Code here and let me propose that we bring back one of our old calculators from a while back. So, let me clear my terminal, close hello.py, and let me go ahead and open up a version of this program that I brought in advance, which was our calculator version 0 from back then. So, just to remind you, one of the first versions of our calculator had the CS50 library as well as the standard IO library. And then we simply got an int using get int in week one. We got another int in week one using get int. And then we simply perform some addition. So it was a very trivial calculator that we did very early on just to demonstrate some of the operators and syntax of C. Well, let's go ahead and try converting this to Python by creating our own program calculator.py. So in my terminal window, I'm going to write code of uh calculator.py. It's going to open another tab which I'm just going to drag over to the right just so we can see both side by side. I won't bother with uh say well let's do it for par here. Let me copy the C code into the Python file even though this will not work in the same way but let's keep what we need and get rid of what we don't. So instead of the slash for comments in Python turns out the convention is to use a single hash symbol like this. So it's a minor difference. It's uh half as many keystrokes. So that's nice, but we're not going to include anything like this. But we are going to do from CS50, let's import a function that I promised would exist called get int. But we'll soon get rid of that training wheel as well. We don't need main or this curly brace. We don't need this curly brace. And we don't need all of this indentation as a result. So I'm going to move all of that over to the left. I'm going to fix all of the comments to be Python comments by changing the slash to hash symbols. And now I'm going to change each of these three lines of code, as you might expect, to the Python version. So you probably can guess already, we can get rid of the int there and the int there. We can get rid of the semicolon here and the semicolon here. We can get rid of the f in print f here. And we can get rid of the semicolon here. And there's a few different ways we could do this, but I dare say the simplest is going to be to get rid of the format code altogether and that first argument and just tell Python to print x + y. So, there's a few different ways we can do this, but that's probably the most literal translation of the program at left to the program at right. Let's reopen the terminal window and run Python of calculator.py and hit enter. Let's do something like x is 1, y is two, and hopefully we do in fact get three. All right, so that's all fine and good, but let's take off one of our training wheels now. So, let me get rid of our C version here and focus just for the moment on Python. Let's take away this C code. And what was the function we can use to get user input? Yeah, it was called a little louder. It's just called input. So, let's get rid of CS50's get int already and use input instead. All right. So, this program is much simpler already. So, let's go ahead and reopen the terminal window. Run Python of calculator.py. Do one again for x, two again for y, and of course 1 + 2 equals 12. So what's going on here? Because clearly this is a step backwards. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So in the context of strings, plus represents concatenation, the joining of two arguments on the left and the right here that seems to be what's happening because it's not 12 per se. It's more literally one two concatenated together. But why is that? Well, apparently the input function indeed returns a string. That is the key. Those are the keystrokes that came back from the user. might look like numbers and Arabic numerals to us one and two but it's being treated as a string more technically like underneath the hood there is some char star stuff going on there even though we're not using that same terminology so intuitively what's going to be the solution without just reverting to using the training wheel that is the get int function from CS50 put another way how did CS50 probably implement get int might you think &gt;&gt; Yeah. So recall that in C we could cast some data types to other data types. Typically ints to chars or chars to ints. It's not quite as simple as casting in this case because underneath the hood thanks to our knowledge of C. There's a bunch of stuff going on. There's probably a one and there's a null character. There's a two and there's a null character. So it's not quite as literal as a char to an int or an int to a char. So, we're going to more properly convert the string or the stir to an int. We're not casting, but converting. And converting just implies that there's a little more work that has to be done. But thankfully, Python can do this for us. In fact, let me go up to line four here and say, uh, pass the well, actually, let's do it in this a couple ways. Let's first convert the x value to an integer. Let's convert the y value to an integer as well. So, funny enough, it's very similar syntactically to casting, but in C, when you cast something, you actually wrote the data type in parenthesis. Now, the data type itself is a function that takes an argument, which is the stir or string that you want to convert. So, let me go back to my terminal, do Python of calculator.py, enter, type in one, type in two, and now I get back my three answer. Now, as you might imagine, just like in C, we can kind of play around with where we're performing some of these operations. And this looks, you know, arguably a little less obvious now as to what is being added. So I really like the simplicity of x plus y just does what it says. So I could convert these in other ways. I could say after line four, you know what, re change x to be the int version of x. But generally speaking, that's kind of wasting a line of code by just doing something you could do on a single line. So let me delete that and instead just say that well if I know the return value of the input function is a stir let's just pass that output as the input to the int function and it'd be a little more Pythonic so to speak to just pass the input functions output as the input to int which is really hard to say but we've done this in C just nesting function calls like this. All right so if I run this one more time Python of calculator.py pi. Type in one. Type in two. We're back now in business. Now, what I won't trip over just yet is a subtlety that whereby I'm deliberately typing in actual numbers like one and two, but if you are following along at home or on your laptop, if you were to type in cat and dog, like bad things will happen. But we'll come back to that before long. All right. Questions though on any of this conversion of our strings to our integers in this case? Oh, all right. Well, what more does Python offer to us? Well, in addition to these data types, there's actually going to be a bunch of others. A few of which we'll actually use today. In fact, we'll see ranges of numbers. That's like that's a thing built into Python. We'll see lists of numbers, which is going to be like a new and improved version of an array that solves like all of last week's problems when we talked about the downsides of using arrays. There's going to be tpples for things like x, y coordinates or GPS coordinates or anything where you have collections of values. There's going to be dicks or dictionaries whereby you can have key value pairs provided to you without having to write a whole hash table yourself. And you can have sets which you can use to just contain unique sets of values that you just want to check for membership. And there's bunches of other data types as well. And this is where languages like Python start to get really powerful because all of the data structures we talked about in C, we really only got from the language itself an array. everything else we had to build or at least talk about building in class. These now and more come with the language. Meanwhile, in the CS50 library for Python, just so you know, there are a whole bunch of functions. These though were the C versions. In Python, it stands to reason that we don't need as many because there's fewer data types in Python, but get float, get int, and get string do all exist in the CS50 library for Python. you're welcome and encouraged to use it because indeed among the goals for problem set six are going to be to redo some of your C problem set problems in Python where you can look at your own C code and hopefully um uh you like that solution and figure out how to convert it line by line essentially to the corresponding Python version but clearly we've seen ways of taking these training wheels off quite quickly as well and in fact if you wanted to import all three of those functions for a larger program you could do this just following the uh approach that I took so already, but you can also just separated them by commas like this. Or it turns out you can also import the whole CS50 library as you'll see in some code and then just access the functions within with slightly different syntax as well. All right, how about another construct from scratch and from C now in fact in Python. So in uh Scratch if we wanted to do a comparison like is X less than Y where each of those are variables then say as much here in C it looked like this and nicely enough you can probably guess already which what's going to change here like the f is about to go away the back slashn is about to go away the semicolon is about to go away but some other stuff's about to go away as well focus your attention on the syntax like parenthesis and curly braces because in Python it's just that so we got rid of the parenthesis because they didn't really add all that much logic ically we got rid of the curly braces which technically we could do in C anytime there's a single line of code inside of a conditional but for uh consistency stylistically we always use them as well. Python though does not have you use any of those curly braces at all. But Python requires that you indent your code properly. So, if you've ever been among those who are writing out your program and like everything is just crazily like left aligned and just a big mess until style 50 swoops in and cleans it up for you, you're not going to be able to write Python code like that anymore. That's been such a societal problem among programmers, newbies and professionals alike, that the language itself requires logically that if you want this line of code to execute if this boolean expression is true, you've got to indent this line by convention four spaces. You can't be lazy and leave it all left aligned and sort of fix it up later. This has made Python code arguably more readable because of these language-based requirements. Meanwhile, let's look at a if else construct in Scratch which looked a little something like this. In C, it looked like this, which is kind of a lot of lines just to express the simple idea. All of those same things are going to go away. Whereby in Python, it looks like this instead. And the only other difference worth calling out is that because you don't have the curly braces, you do have a colon which precedes the subsequent indentation as well. Meanwhile, if we've got an if else if else in Scratch in C, of course, it looked like this. A lot of this is going to go away in the flash of a screen, but there's going to be a curiosity, which is not in fact a typo. Notice what happens with the elseif. It's abbreviated L if. And honestly, to this day, all these years later, I can never remember if it's l if or else if because different languages use different shorthand spellings of this phrase. It's L if in Python. Uh because that's maybe the most succinct you can make the two words themselves. But everything else is effectively the same, including the additional colon this time. Okay, questions on any of those conditionals and syntax. Yeah. &gt;&gt; So, what language did they code Python? &gt;&gt; What a good question. What language did they code Python in? The interpreter we are using within VS code is itself written in C aka C Python. However, you can implement a Python interpreter really in any language including machine code like raw zeros and ones if you have that much free time in assembly language which we saw briefly weeks ago. You could write an interpreter for Python in Python if you really want to be meta about it or in C++ or in Java. This is the thing about programming languages. You can use any language to create a compiler for or interpreter for another language. What's going to vary is just how easy or difficult it is and how much time it therefore takes you. Good question. Other questions on any of these here features? Oh. All right. Well, let's do something a little bit uh different in Python visa VC by opening up maybe a comparison program that we looked at some time ago. So, let me go back to VS Code here. I'm going to close my calculator and I'm going to open up now from my uh distribution code today a version of our comparison program from a while back which was essentially the uh version three zero index thereof. So this one has comments which the very first one in week one did not. But notice as a refresher what this comparison program was doing. It was including cs50.h and standard.io.h. It was prompting the user for two integers via get int x and y. It was then doing a very simple comparison comparing X against Y to determine if it's less than, greater than, or dot dot dot the same as X and uh the same or equal to the same. So just so that we can go through the motions of converting one of these to the other, let's do that side by side. Let me code a program called compare.py. Let me close my terminal. Drag the Python version over to the right here. And without comments this time, let's just do from CS50 import get int. Then below that, let's do x equals get int and ask the user for what's uh x question mark. Then let's ask the user for y using get intquote what's y question mark. Then below that, let's do if x less than y colon. Go ahead and print quote unquote X is less than Y. Close quote. L if X greater than Y. Go ahead and print quote unquote X is greater than Y. Else colon, let's go ahead and print out quote unquote X is equal to Y. So I dare say these are now equivalent. It's clearly fewer lines because a lot of the lines it left were admittedly comments, but also some curly braces. And there's more syntax like parenthesis that we got rid of, too. Let me open my terminal window. Let me run Python of compare.py. We'll type in one and two. One is less than uh x is less than y. Let's do it again using two and one. x is greater than y. Let's do it one last time. One and one. And of course, those two now are equal to each other. All right. But why go down this road again? Because that was kind of a simple exercise. But recall that we introduced this comparison of ants because it was so sort of stupidly simple. even if the syntax at that week was completely new. But we ran into an issue pretty fast when we started comparing strings. And that was a problem we really only fixed in week four when we finally revealed what a string actually is. If we focus a bit more on Python strings, it turns out that we can solve that problem much more easily in the world of Python. In fact, let me go back to VS Code here. Let me close these two versions of int comparison. Let me open up at left a version of my program that I brought with me here that contains a version from week 2 wherein we finally revealed that a string is just a char star. But recall that the solution in week four as well as in week one when we first encountered this problem was to use stir comp a function that whose purpose in life is to compare two strings character by character by character using a for loop or something like that. But they have knowledge therefore of how to navigate pointers, how to look for the null character, the back/zero at the end. And all of that came from our friend string.h. Well, how can we go about implementing the same idea in Python? Well, let's open up VS Codes terminal window, open up a new program called compare.py, but this time let's get rid of the integer version thereof. Let's get two ins from the user. And I won't even use any CS50 training wheels. Let's just use the input function to get S and ask the user for a value of S. So S colon close quote with a space T equals input ask the user for a variable T. And then let's just ask the question. If S equals T, then print out quote unquote same. Else go ahead and print out quote unquote different. Let me move these side by side just so you can see the difference. Notice how much code we have to write and how much we needed to understand in order to compare something as trivial as two strings in C. But in Python, we're literally just using equals equals. And let's see if it actually works. So, Python of compare.py. Enter. Let's type in maybe cat for s and dog for t. And those are in fact different, but we would have gotten the same answer in C. Let's rerun Python of compare.py and type in cat. Type in cat again. And now it's detecting them the same. So wonderfully, Python has solved that seemingly annoying problem of not taking us literally like don't compare the pointer against the pointer. Compare what a reasonable programmer probably really cares about the values of those strings. So the equal equals is doing all of the for loop or the while loop iterating over those things character by character and actually giving us the answer we want. So what else gets easier in Python? Well, let's focus a bit more on these strings. Let me go back into VS Code here. Let me close out our two comparison programs and clear my terminal. And let me go ahead and open up a prior program that we wrote that one called agree.c. And namely in the staff version of the code online, this was agree to. C, which is where we left it. Now recall in this C program that we did the following. We first using CS50's get char function prompted the user for a char hopefully Y or N for yes or no respectively. And then we used a boolean expression and actually the combination of two using the two vertical bars to ask whether the inputed character is capital Y or the inputed character is lowercase Y. And if so, we went ahead and printed out that the user agreed. Otherwise, if they type in anything else for that character, we simply printed out not agreed. Well, how can we go about implementing that same program in Python? For instance, in a file called agree.py. Well, let me go ahead and open up my terminal window again. Let's create a file called agree.py. not pi as before. Let me go ahead and drag it over to the right so we can see these two things side by side. And let me go ahead and do this. I'm going to set a variable say called s uh equal to the return value of input quote unquote do you agree thereby asking the user the same question as before. No need to use the CS50 library because the input function here suffices. And instead of using C, I'm deliberately using S because it turns out in Python, there is no way to get a single character per se, but you can get a string that has a single character. Indeed, char is not a data type in Python. But once we have this input from the user, let's now go ahead and implement a conditional using one or more boolean expressions. Well, let's ask if S equals equals quote unquote capital Y or S equals equals lowercase Y, then let's go ahead and print out as before quote unquote agreed. And now notice what's different this time. I'm literally using the word or instead of the two vertical bars because in the spirit of Python, things tend to be a little more English-like, a little more readable, top to bottom, left to right. And indeed, or hits that nail on the head. Otherwise, if it is not an capital Y or a lowercase Y, let's go ahead and print out quote unquote not agreed. And that's it for converting this program from C here into Python. But of course, this isn't the most robust version of the program because it would be nice if the user could type in something like yes uh ye capitalized maybe in different ways. So, how might we go about implementing that? Well, we could do this in a few ways. I could of course and let's go ahead and get rid of my C version now and focus just on the Python. I could do something like this and just start oring together more possibilities like or S equals uh quote unquote yes or S equals equals quote unquote yes very emphatically or and so forth. But you could imagine that this doesn't scale very well. If I want to consider all the possible permutations maybe of the caps lock key being up or down, that's quite a few possibilities to enumerate. So perhaps we could do this a little bit differently. And in fact, we can by maybe storing all of the possibilities in a so-called list. So whereas C had of course arrays, Python has what are called lists which effectively underneath the hood are indeed linked lists as we explored in week five. Now a linked list of course can dynamically grow and even shrink. And that's indeed what Python does for us. I can simply create a list of values from the get-go. Or as we'll eventually see, I can add things to it, remove things from it, and all of the underlying memory gets managed for me. And in fact, with lists, we get a whole bunch of features that can make this possible. But for now, let's use them simply as statically initialized lists with values I know from the get-go that I want. And I'm going to go ahead and do this in VS Code. I'm going to delete most of this boolean expression, the combination of all of those there phrases. And I'm going to simply say if S is in using a Python keyword in, literally the following list of values quote unquote Y, quote unquote yes. And for now, I'm going to use just those two. But let's see how it works. Let me run python of agree.py. Really for the first time, but let me claim that it would have worked even in the previous version. Enter. I'm going to go ahead and type in lowercase y. And I've agreed. I'm going to go ahead and run it again and type in lowercase n. And I've not agreed. I'm going to go ahead and run it again. And I'm going to type in all caps. Yes, because I really agree. And yet I don't because there is a bug still in this version. So even though up here in my Python implementation I do have a list of values that I'm looking for, Python's going to look literally for those values. So lowercase Y and lowercase yes. So how can I go about tolerating different capitalizations by the user? Well, I can do this in a few different ways. I could for instance after getting the user's input in a variable called S, I could update S to be S.L, lower which is going to have the effect of lowercasing the word for me and then updating the value itself of s and now I think this will work even for an uppercase version let me go ahead and run python of agree.py pi emphatically type in yes enter and yet this time I've agreed because I forced the user's input to lowercase and then I have compared against the canonical forms I've written which are all lowercase I could have done the opposite I could have forced the user's input to uppercase and then enumerated in my Python list in between those square brackets uh capital y and capital yees but either approach here is fine now technically I don't need this additional line here I can go ahead and delete that line wherein I lowercased it and in Python I can actually ain some of these function calls together by saying input.lower so that the return value of input ultimately gets forced to lowercase by using lower here. Uh alternatively still I could just lowercase the very at the very moment I'm actually comparing it and down here I could do s. And then compare the lowercase version of what's going on uh to y or yes. Now what's really this all about? Well, this is actually an example of what's generally known as object-oriented programming or OOP for short, whereby in Python and a lot of other languages. Now, you can have variables and data types more generally that have not only values associated with them like Y or yes, but also functionality built in. In other words, whereas in C, we would have used a function from like the C type library called to upper or to lower and we would have passed as an argument to those functions the very character that we wanted to force to uppercase or to lowercase. Well, in Python and indeed object-oriented programming languages in general, the developers behind the language recognize that sometimes there's functionality that's inherently related to the values in question. And indeed, when we're dealing with strings, it's pretty reasonable to want to sometimes uppercase them or lowercase them, capitalize them, or do any number of other things. And so, built into the string type in Python is in fact the lower function itself, as well as a whole bunch of others. In fact, at this URL here, can you see the documentation for all of the string functions built into Python? More technically, when a function is built into a data type and you access it via this dot notation, instead of by calling some global function and passing an argument into it, you are using what are called methods. So methods are simply functions that are inside of objects. And in this case, the object in question itself is a string. So what's really happening with this here example when I'm checking whether the user has agreed or not is I'm taking that value that string s which is technically now an object in memory and inside of that object are is not only the user's input but some built-in functionality otherwise known now as methods and those methods were written by the same people who invented the string data type itself. So this is just the first of these examples, but we'll see yet others. But notice the syntax is actually quite similar to C, just as in C. When you wanted to go inside of a structure, you can similarly go inside of an object in Python and access not just the values ultimately, but also these built-in methods. All right, how about another comparison of C to Python again involving strings? Well, let me go ahead and reopen and clear my terminal and close out of agree.py. Let me go ahead and open up a version of copying strings from a couple of weeks back whereby we finally started solving it correctly by doing some proper memory management. So here in the staff version of copy 5.C we have not only a commented version of what we did a couple weeks back but we also have a reminder of how what was involved in copying strings in C. Recall for instance that we prompted the user in this example using CS50's get string function for a string that they wanted to make a copy of and then we did some error checking ultimately to make sure that there was enough memory and nothing went wrong. Then recall that the right solution to this problem in C was not to just use the assignment operator and assume that S can be copied into T, but rather to allocate using maloc enough memory for the copy plus one more bite for the null character. Again, making sure that all is well by checking the return value of that. and then actually copying character by character by character the characters from S into the chunk of memory now known as T or ultimately recall we used a built-in stir copy function which does all of that looping for us and then when it came time to capitalize just the copy we did a quick sanity check is the length of t greater than zero otherwise there's nothing to capitalize and if so go ahead and use the cype libraries to upper function passing as input that specific character t bracket zero and and updating t bracket zero itself. So here's an example of procedural programming in contrast with object-oriented programming. Again, I'm passing the argument to be uh uppercased into the two upper function as opposed to simply going to that character and asking it via some dot operator to for instance uppercase itself. Now I went ahead in the C version and printed out the two strings. I freed up my copy of memory that I myself had allocated and that was it for this program. So, it was a decent amount of work, recall, in C, to actually go about just copying a string. Well, as with so many things in Python, it's going to be so much easier. Let me go ahead and do this. Let me open my terminal window. Let me create a file called copy.py. Let me move it over to the right hand side so we can see them side by side. Closing my terminal window. And let's do roughly the same. Let's create a variable called s. Set it equal to on the right hand side the return value of Python's own input function because we don't really need CS50's own get string function. and ask the user for s. Then let's go ahead and create a second variable called t. Set it equal to literally s. capitalize whose purpose in life, if we read Python's documentation for string methods, will be to uppercase the first letter of the word that the user has presumably just typed in. Then I'm going to go ahead and print out as before the user's input. And I can do this in a couple of different ways, but I'm going to use one of our format strings and say s colon and then interpolate that variable s by using my curly braces to say put the value of s here. Then I'm going to go ahead and print out t by saying t colon interpolate its value here inside of quotes close parenthesis. So let's see if this works. Let me go ahead now and run python of copy.py. I'm going to go ahead and type in say cat in all lowercase and hit enter. And now notice S remains in all lowercase, but the copy indeed has been capitalized alone. All right. Well, let's take a look at one other example involving strings uh between C and Python equivalents. Uh let me go ahead and remind us that a few weeks back too, we created this uppercase program whose purpose in life was to prompt the user using get string for a string saying here's the before string. then it prints out after because the purpose in life of this program was to uppercase all of the characters in the string, not just capitalize the first one. So, as you might expect, we used a loop a few weeks back and we iterated from zero on up to the length of the string using plus+ to increment i in each iteration and then each time we went ahead and printed out one character at a time. So, strictly speaking, we didn't change the string from lowercase perhaps to uppercase. We just changed each letter to uppercase and printed it out right away. Well, how might we do something similar in Python? Well, here too we have a couple of different approaches. Let me go ahead and open up my terminal now. Run uh code of say uppercase.py. Close my terminal window and let's drag this to the right so we can see them side by side. And let's do roughly the same. Let me create a variable this time called before. uh set that equal to the return value of input and just prompt the user for that before string. Then after that, let's go ahead and print out preemptively after colon space space just to align everything nicely. But let me not print a new line yet because I want to go ahead and see uh the following string on that same line. And then let's go ahead and do this analogously to the C version first, but then tighten things up. Here's how we can iterate in Python over every character in a string. I don't need to bother with I and indexing into the string or anything like that. I can using a Python for loop simply say for each character C in that string called before go ahead and print out the uppercase version of that character. But don't yet print out a new line. But at the very end of this loop, go ahead and print out nothing but a new line. Let me go ahead and open my terminal. Run Python of uppercase.py. Enter. Type in cat in all lowercase. Cross my fingers. and after each and every one of the characters is uppercased. And what's nice about this, if nothing else, is that this for loop in Python there on line three is pretty elegant, whereby you implicitly get access to each character in the string because that's how Python knows how to iterate over a string object. But it turns out we don't have to do this quite as analogously in Python as we did in C. We don't have to do it character by character in so far as Python is object-oriented and these strings are objects and those objects have methods. those methods will actually operate on the entire string at once unlike the more pedantic work we had to do character by character in C. So in fact let me go ahead and close the C version here uh clear my terminal and hide it and let's go ahead and make this quite simpler. Let's get rid of the for loop al together and let's simply and let's get rid of that print statement al together leaving only the before variable and getting the user's input. And now let's create an after variable. Set it equal to before dot upper thereby uppercasing the entire string called before and setting the return value to the after variable. And then let's go ahead and print using our old friend string uh after colon uh space and then interpolate the value of that after version. So now we're down to just three lines at that. Let me go ahead and reopen my terminal. Python of uppercase.py enter. Type in cat and all lowercase. And voila. Now I have capitalized the cat all at once. All right. Before we take a break for some uh fruit by the foot, let's go ahead and take a look at Python's implementation of loops further. So in Scratch, recall that we implemented a loop with something like this. If I wanted to meow three times on the screen, I would literally use a repeat block. In C, it was a little clunkier to mimic that same idea. Like we could implement a variable uh called I and set it equal to zero. Then we could ask a boolean expression, is I less than three? If so, print meow and then increment i using our old plus+ friend, which in Python is now gone. In Python, we can do this almost the same except I don't think we need the data type. I don't think we need the semicolon. We don't need the parenthesis. While still exists, we don't need the curly braces. And we can't use the plus+. We don't need the f. I mean, we're mostly just trimming clutter from this here implementation. So, this is the C version. This now is the Python version. a little tighter, a little easier to read. It's pretty much the minimal syntax available to get the job done. So, how can we actually have a cat meow in this case? Well, let me go into VS Code and I'll stop doing everything side by side and just stipulate that we've done most of these examples previously in C. And in my first cat, well, I could certainly do it the easy way. And let me go ahead and create cat.py. And like we always started in the past with, I could just do me and then our old friend copy paste. And this of course was bad for bunches of reasons, but it gets the job done. In Python, if I want to do this, well, I can just borrow that same inspiration and I could say set I equal to zero, then do while uh I is less than three colon, then go ahead and print out meow and then go ahead and do I equal or rather I plus= 1 is maybe the most succinct way to express that same idea. All right, just to confirm that this works, Python of cat.py. Enter. Meow meow meow. All right. So, how else can we do this? And how can we do this more Pythonically? This is perfectly correct. Many people might implement it this way, but it's not quite as succinct as we could alternatively do in Python. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So, we could maybe use a for loop. And in fact, let's let's go there because we don't quite have the same types of for loops in Python as we did in C. while loops are essentially the same, but for loops are actually a little bit different and actually a little bit better. So, let me go into my code here, delete all four of these lines, and literally just say for i in this list of values 01 and two colon print meow. In other words, in four loops in Python, you don't have the parentheses, you don't have the two semicolons, you don't have the initialization and the boolean expression and the update. You just say a little more English-like for each I in the following list or for each value of I in the following list. And what Python will do for us is automatically on the first iteration set I equal to zero. On the second iteration set I to one on the third iteration set I to two and then there's only three things in the list. So that's it. And so just as before with the Y and the yes example where I use square brackets similar to arrays and C, I was using a Python list of strings in that case. Here I'm using a Python list of integers 0, one, and two. And they're integers in the sense that they have no quotes around them. So they're obviously not strings. And I'm printing out meow this many times. And indeed, if I do Python of cat.py again, I get meow meow meow. This is correct. This is arguably better, at least in the sense that it's two lines of code instead of four. And it's arguably more readable as well. But what do you not like about this perhaps even if you're only seeing it for the first time? &gt;&gt; Yeah, it's going to be a lot more difficult to do things more than three times because recall in Python in in Scratch at least. And in C, we had the ability to either express ourselves literally or at least in C, we could just change that three to any number we want. 30, 300, no big deal. It's a super simple change, even though it was kind of annoying to type all of this out. Well, in Python, yeah, I could do this and say for I and 0 1 and two just to mimic the numbers that we'd be setting I equal to in the C version. Frankly, this can be any list. It could be 1 2 3 4 5 6 uh cat, dog, bird, or any three things whatsoever. But I'm just using 0 1 and two for consistency with the way C would have done it. But slightly better than this is to use one of those other data types that was briefly on the screen earlier. We have not just floats and ints and stirs and lists and tpples. We also have what are called ranges. And range is not only a data type in Python, but more literally a function that you can call to get a range of values from zero on up. So I can change this list of three values to a function call to a function called range. Pass in how many things I want and by default, per the documentation, I'll get back a list of numbers 0, 1, and two. And nicely, Python's pretty smart about this. It technically doesn't hand you back all of the numbers at once, whether it's three or 30 or 300 or 3 million. It sort of hands them back to you one at a time. So you're not using more memory just because you're doing more iterations. So now if I do want to iterate four times, five times, 30 times, 300 times. I again can just change the single value. And if you want to be fancy too, you can skip numbers. You can go count all the way through odd numbers or even numbers. You can change the incrementation factor. But the default and the most canonical is indeed just to count up like that. So if I go back to VS Code here and improve this, I can change that hard-coded list to just range of three, clear my terminal, run this cat one more time, and now I'm back in business as well. In fact, this is so common. Let me throw up one alternative to this. You'll notice that in the previous example, both in VS Code and on the screen, um I am not actually using I in any way. In fact, if you look back at how we converted the Scratch to Python code, I'm using I because when you use a for loop in Python, you have to give it a variable in some list or range of values. That's just the way it is. But I'm technically not using or printing I anywhere. And that's fine. And so it's arguably Pythonic, too. If you have a variable out of necessity, but you're not actually going to use it for anything useful, just call it an underscore instead. And even though this is weird looking, an underscore is a valid symbol for a variable name in Python. So it is Pythonic to just use this just to signal to yourself later and to colleagues that yeah, I'm using a variable because I have to, but it's not one I'm actually going to use elsewhere. It's a minor subtlety and not strictly uh necessary, but perhaps commonly done. All right, how about a couple final versions of cats then? So recall that if we wanted to do something in Scratch forever, we had a forever block which literally did that. Well, in C, we couldn't quite translate that literally. So the closest uh approximation was probably this while true, whereby you have a boolean expression that by definition is always true. So the loop is never going to stop, thereby infinite. If you wanted to print out meow meow meow on the screen, adnauseium. In Python, you can do it almost the same, but the curly braces are about to go, the f is about to go, the back slashn, the semicolon, and the parenthesis. But for whatever reason, in C, we lowercase true and false. In Python, we capitalize true and false. So, a minor subtlety, but it's now indeed capital T, but the indentation has to be the same and the colon has to be there as well. So, with that, we can of course induce intentionally or otherwise some infinite loops. As with C, you can break out of them if need be with control C to interrupt the process. But let's just see lastly with this cat how we can make it a little more abstract like the final versions of our cat in Scratch and C. So let me propose to open up here uh in a pro version of cat that we looked at that we wrote in the past. Uh it was version 12 at the time which looked a little something like this. This was one of the final versions of our cat in C that simply allowed me in Maine to call a meow function that took an argument which is the number of times I wanted to meow. This in C is how we implemented that helper function so to speak that returned nothing. So its return type was void but it did take an integer called n as its input. And then there was a for loop inside of there that printed meow that many times. So long story short, this was how both in Scratch and in C we invented our own functions. Well, how can we do this now in Python? Well, let me bring this version of cat over to the right here. Delete that previous version. And let me propose that we do this. For I in range of three, let's go ahead and assume for the moment that there is a meow function in Scratch whose purpose in life is to just meow on the screen. Well, that of course does not exist. So, in Python, I'm going to use a trick that allows me to define my own function. And the keyword for this is literally defaf for define. the name of the function and then parenthesis if it takes no arguments. You don't need the void keyword even if it takes no inputs. So let's do a simpler version of the cat first that takes no arguments and then we'll add back that argument. How do how does a cat meow? It literally just says meow on the screen. So already we seem to be an improvement. I've got like four lines of actual code here versus like 20 or so on the lefth hand side. Let's go ahead and run Python of cat.py. Enter. And we see the first of our errors which is remarkable because usually I would have messed up by now. So here we have in Python the equivalent of like a compiler error message. The program has not run. It's tried to run. It's tried to be interpreted but it encountered some error. These are generally called trace backs in the sense that you see a trace back in time of everything the program was trying to do just before it failed. So if you've called a function which called a function which called a function, you'd see all of those function calls on the screen. I've just tried to call one function. So, it's a relatively short error. This is clearly a problem. And here's the type of problem. Name error. The name Meow is not defined. So, intuitively, even if you're seeing Python for the first time, why is ma meow not defined even though it's literally defined right there? Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. As smart as Python is visav, still kind of naive in that meow doesn't exist until line four. So, if you try to use it on line two, too soon. All right. So, in C, we fix this problem by initially just kind of hacking things together by just all right, well, let's just define it up here and then move that down there. And that's totally reasonable. And in fact, if I clear my terminal and rerun Python of cat.py, we're back in business. But I'd argue you can only do that so many times, especially once you've got a bunch of functions. You don't want to relegate like the main part of your program, which really this loop is, to the very bottom of the screen, if only because like that's the first thing you care about. I want to see at the top of the screen. And that's the whole point of putting main at the very top. So what was the solution in C? The solution in C was to put the prototype for the function at the top of the file. That though is not a thing in Python. You don't just copy that first line of code, put it at the top of the file, add a semicolon, and then it works. Instead, the Pythonic way to solve this problem for better or for worse is to actually put your code in a main function. Main in Python has no special significance in this sense. It's just convention to borrow the name that so many other languages use as the main function in those languages. But you just wrap your function in a function main so that you're defining main then you're defining meow before you're actually using the meow function per se. But I have made a mistake. If I run Python of cat.py pi. Now cross my fingers for good measure. And now the program does nothing. Why is that? Yeah. Why is that? &gt;&gt; Oh, sorry. Go ahead. &gt;&gt; Yeah, curiously, I never called the main function. So whereas in C and in Java and C++ and a bunch of other languages, main is special. Like main is the function by definition that is automatically called. Python has no such special magic. It's not going to call main for you just because you created it. In fact, I didn't even call that main function main. It's just a convention. But the solution is exactly that. Well, if the problem is that main wasn't called at the bottom of this file, what I can do is just literally call main, which we would never have done in C, but this is conventional to do in Python. So that after you've defined main up here and then define meow down here now you can call main which in turn will call meow but at that point in the story both of those functions functions exist. So if I go down here and run cat.py again now I see my meow meow meow. Now let me add one final flourish because this version of the code in C recall actually let me specify how many times I want to meow whereas here I actually have my for loop in main at the right and I'm calling meow that many times. Well, what if I want to get rid of this loop over here and de-indent main meow here and pass in literally the number three here. Well, in Python, you can just say inside of the definition of a function that it takes an argument like n. You don't have to specify the data type. Python's smart enough to figure it out. Then in your function, you can use that as with for i in range of n. Go ahead and print meow. So now the right-hand version of this program is pretty much equivalent to the lefth hand version of this program as always using fewer lines of code. Let me go ahead and run python of cat.py. Meow. Meow. Meow. We're good. And then let me make one final change if only because most every documentation you see online or website tutorials on Python will actually have you not just literally call main at the bottom but you'll do this crazy syntax that is solves a problem that we won't trip over in this class but typically it's Pythonic to actually call main after asking the question if name equals equals quote unquote_ain main. This is a stupid mouthful of code that even I had to think about when I was typing it out if I got all the underscores correct. But long story short, this convention of using a conditional before you call main allows you to write more modular code in Python so that some of your files don't actually do anything other than define define define define functions that you can then import into other files you write. So in short, this is the right way to do it. Even though in CS50 it is unlikely that we are to trip over this bug. Questions now on that last piece of how we define functions in Python. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Ah good question and good eye. Why do I have two lines between my functions in Python? As you will see via style 50, it is Pythonic that is Python convention to separate functions in your code by two lines. Whereas there is no such convention in C. So I'm trying to be consistent with what the world does. &gt;&gt; If you want to count backwards in a loop, can you do that? Absolutely. You could use the range function in a different way. Start count uh start with a much larger value and count down. How? But you could alternatively do that with a while loop. I would say that yeah, you can make that work, but you shouldn't. It just people don't do that unless it does actually solve a problem for you. Other questions on this? All right. Well, when we looked at C, recall there was a bunch of things that ultimately like we couldn't do well. We ran into issues of like full loading point precision and integer overflow and truncation and like all of these worlds problems. Um, there's still going to be some of those, but first let's take a fruit by the foot break and we'll be back in 10. Help yourself to seconds today. All right, so we're back and let's use our remaining time together to focus not only on some of the problems that Python can solve more readily than C, but also some of the problems that remain. So here was a program early on in our discussion of C that had this weird bug whereby when we implemented a relatively simple calculator to divide two numbers x / y. We experienced what we called truncation at the time whereby 1 / 3 was curiously zero and like something like 4 / 3 was curiously one and we were losing everything after the decimal point. And this was true even if we tried using floats because with truncation recall everything after the decimal point with integer math is simply discarded. So if you do int divided by int you're going to lose what is after the decimal point. So let's take a look in Python at whether this is still actually a problem. So let me go back into VS Code here. We'll close out the C version thereof and let's go ahead and create our own program called calculator.py. And in this version, let's modify the original, which just did some addition, and instead have it do some division instead. I'll get rid of my outdated comments and perform now division instead of uh addition by doing x / y. Python of calculator.py, let's try one and let's try three. And oh, our fractions are actually back. So it turns out in Python, even when you're manipulating integers, if you divide one by the other, and the result logically should actually be a floatingoint value, that's what in fact you're going to get back. And you don't have to jump through the same hoops that we did before to actually force things to floats and then do floatingoint arithmetic and so forth. In fact, if you want the old behavior, it's still actually there. And you can use two slashes in Python to use the old integer division as opposed to what we're seeing here. But a typical programmer I dare say nowadays would want it to behave in exactly the same way. So truncation seems to be less therefore of an issue for us. All right. Well, what other problems did we encounter at the time? Well, recall we had issues of floating point imprecision whereby even when we divided something simple like one divided by three and in grade school we learned that was like 0.333 repeating infinitely many times, we started seeing weird numbers that were not three at the end of that value back in the day. in C. Unfortunately, that's a problem that's still with us. In fact, if I use this same program here, let me go into VS Code and instead of printing out just X / Y, let's go ahead and do this temporarily. Let me give myself a variable called Z and set it equal to X / Y only because it'll be a little easier to see the formatting trick I'm going to use. Let's go ahead and print out a format string that prints out Z. And for the moment, let me just claim that this is do going to do the exact same thing. It's just completely gratuitous that I'm using an F string now as opposed to just printing out Z. But if I do 1 / 3, we're still seeing 0.333. But we're only seeing just over 10 or so digits here. What if we want to see like 50 digits and really start poking around at what's being represented? Well, the syntax is a little weird, but in Python, using an F string, you can do tricks similar to what we did with the percent f with print f and c. And if after my variable's name in this uh set of curly braces, I do a colon and then a dot because I want to see numbers after the decimal point and say something arbitrary like show me 50 digits after the decimal point and treat this as a float. This is a crazy incantation I do think of a format string even I am sort of cheating off of the paper in front of me but this is how you format strings if you want to see them with a little uh more precision or so I think. If I rerun Python of calculator.py pi and do one divided by 3. Darn it, we're still in the same mess that we were before. Now, why is this? Well, it's still the case that I'm running the code on the same kinds of computers that I did before. It's still the case that these computers only have a finite amount of memory. And so, even though I'm manipulating clearly floatingoint values, Python is only allocating, say, 64 bits to those float variables. And so, there's only so much precision that's possible. And so what we're seeing is essentially the closest representation to an infinite number of threes that we can represent using binary using a floatingoint representation therein. So still a problem but I do think in Python you'll find that there's so many more libraries out there thirdparty software that comes not just with the language itself but from others whereby you can use uh libraries for more precise scientific computing that essentially implement their own versions of floatingoint values so that you can use not 64 but 128 or more bits than that when it really matters to some level of precision. Thankfully though one problem is at least solved for us namely integer overflow. So recall that this was another problem we ran into whereby if you try counting higher than say 4 billion or even higher than 2 billion if you're representing negative numbers which has the total range that you have available to you in the positive range we ran into the situation where it somehow wrapped around became negative and then even ended up being zero as a result. Well, Python wonderfully nowadays just gives you more and more bits as needed if your integers are getting larger and larger. So this is a wonderful feature and that we've at least addressed one fundamental limitation we ran into in C and this time the language itself provides us a solution. Python 2 has some pretty handy features as well. One of them is what are called exceptions. And so an exception in Python is a way of handling error conditions without relying on return values alone. So recall that in C if you ever wanted to signify that something went wrong you have to return like most recently like null n ul which was a special sentinel value technically it's just the zero address and by checking for that you can make sure that you know if you're getting back a valid pointer or not and in other functions if something went wrong you might similarly have to check the return value maybe checking for zero or negative one or one or something like that but return values were the only way in C that functions could communicate back to the programmer that something went wrong. And this is problematic because if you imagine implementing a function that's supposed to return maybe an integer, whether positive, negative, or zero, it's kind of unfortunate sometimes if you have to steal one of those values and say, uh-uh, you can't use this value. It's fine in the world of pointers because the world decided years ago, we're never going to use the actual address o x0, the zero address. But that's still technically costing us one or more bytes of space. But in general, it's a bit annoying if your function can't truly return all possible values. Think about a function like get string. If something went wrong in getstring, what do you want to return? Well, we saw in the C uh CS50 library, we do in fact return null once we introduce that. But in general, wouldn't it be nice if functions could somehow signal out of band, so to speak, that something went wrong? So, by that I mean this, let's go into a new program that's inspired by one of our programs today. And in VS Code, I'm going to go ahead and close my calculator, open my terminal window, and create a new program called integer.py. So in integer.py, let's just play around with some integers and see what we can break. So here, I'll define a variable called n, and set it equal to the input function, which comes with Python, just asking the human for some input. Then I'm going to go ahead and ask a question. Is the user's input numeric? And it turns out if you read the documentation for strings in Python, they come with not just an upper function, a lower function aka methods, but also is numeric function or method that tells you whether or not the string itself happens to be numeric. That is looks like a number. All right. So I think if I do that, I could then do something like this. If n is numeric, I'm going to go ahead and claim that in fact it is an integer. Else if it's not numeric, I'm going to claim that it's not an integer. I have no idea what it is. Maybe it's cat. Maybe it's dog. Maybe it's a mix of numbers and letters, but it's definitely not an integer as defined by a sequence of decimal digits in this case. All right, so let's try this out. Python of integer.py. Enter. We'll type in one. That's an integer. We'll type in two. That's an integer. We'll type in zero. That's an integer. Type in cat. Not an integer. So that seems to in fact work. But what if I wanted to immediately convert this to an int as we did in the past. And so let me modify this a little bit here and say instead this n equals not just input asking the user for an integer or rather let's just ask them more generally for input but let's assume that we want to convert this input to an int. And actually we can go ahead and say integer here. All right. Well, here I'm going to go ahead and just print out the claim that yep, this is an integer because if we get to line two, well, clearly we've handled uh the user's input correctly. In other words, how can I get rid of constantly checking the return val sorry, how can I get away from constantly checking the return values of functions to make sure it is what I expect. All right. Well, let's go ahead and run Python of integer.py now. Enter. Type in one tells me it's an integer. Type in two tells me it's an integer. zero tells me it's an integer. Type in cat. Notice this time what goes wrong. Whereas last time we saw this kind of trace back error message, it was a name error because I was using the meow function name too early. Now I'm getting a value error which is a different type of error that relates to invalid literal for int with base 10 cat. Now that's a mouthful. So unfortunately Python's error messages aren't all that much better than clang's error messages. But clearly the interpreter does not like the fact that I'm passing something to int related to base 10, but that's quote unquote cat. And really, the best you can do with this kind of error is realize like, okay, it's clearly the case that cat is not an integer. So, it's having trouble converting cat to an integer. It makes no logical sense. All right. So, what's the gist of the problem? Well, I'm just blindly converting the user's input to an integer, even if it's not input. uh even if it's not an integer. Well, all right. Well, I could rewind to the previous version of my function, use the is numeric function, and then conditionally convert it, but I'm trying to move away from constantly checking return values of error messages. And wouldn't it be nice if I could somehow catch this value error and just deal with it if it happens? And in fact, you can with Python exceptions and which exist in other languages as well, Java among them. You have the ability to sort of listen for errors happening inside of functions without having to rely on return values alone. So, let me go back to VS Code here, clear my terminal just to simplify things a bit, and let me literally say to the interpreter, please try to execute the following two lines of code, except if something goes wrong, like a value error, in which case go ahead and print out something like not integer. So, wouldn't it be nice if you could just wrap all of the code you've written in CS50 thus far with try and sort of ask the computer politely like please try to execute this code? But that really is the the semantics behind it. Try to execute these lines of code except if there's an error then do this other thing instead. And therefore, you don't have to check any return values. you can just blindly pass the output of the input function as the input to the int function knowing that if something goes wrong inside of there, Python is going to execute this code instead except when something goes wrong. So let me go ahead and run Python of integer.py now. I'll type in one and that works because it's trying to execute line two and succeeding. It's trying to execute line three and succeeding. So lines four and four never actually kick in. But if I try again here with cat, line two is going to fail. Line three is never going to get reached because Python is immediately going to jump to this exception handler, so to speak, thereby catching the error or the exception and printing not integer instead. So it's a little bit of a weird convention. It's different from what C offers, but a lot of newer languages nowadays do offer this because it's a better way of just writing code that you know should work 99% of the time. But if something does go wrong out of memory, the human types something wrong in or something like that, you can handle all of those exceptional cases, exceptional in a bad sense using this accept keyword instead. questions on any of this here technique. &gt;&gt; a really good question. In this case, I used a value error. Do I need to define every possible thing that can go wrong? Short answer, yes. Now, there aren't terribly many. There's some standard ones and they're all capitalized in this way. Capital letter, capital letter, something error. Typically, you can even invent your own. Um, and it's good practice to enumerate the kinds of things that you think can go wrong. Value error is pretty generic, but there could be memory related errors. There could be file not found related errors. There's a bunch of different exceptions that are all documented in Python that you can listen for. That said, as nice as Python's documentation is overall, it is not good at documenting for specific functions what exceptions they can throw. And I've never understood this after all of these years that no human has gone into the documentation and painstakingly enumerated all of the possible things that can go wrong. What's too often the case in the real world with some of my own code included is if you encounter an exception that you didn't think was going to happen, you go in and improve your code and add to this list of except clauses. What else might go wrong? Shouldn't be that way. And different libraries are better about documenting these things. All right. Well, with that in mind, let me propose that in the CS50 library for Python, get int and get float, they work just like the C library whereby if you type in cat or dog or bird into those functions, they just reprompt you. They just reprompt you. And long story short, this is the kind of code we wrote in Python. Try to get input from the user except if something goes wrong, prompt them again, prompt them again. So, we too were using precisely these features even though it wasn't something that was available to us in C. All right. But something else that we did in C was play around with Mario in a few different forms. And in lecture recall a few weeks back, we experimented with like using some asy arts, some very simple text to print out something like this pyramid of height 3. Well, how can we go about printing something like this? Well, I would propose that if I go back to VS Code here, let's close out my integer examples, code up a new version of Mario in Mario.py. This one's kind of simple. I can say something like for I in range of three, go ahead and print out quote unquote a hash. down in my terminal window, Python of Mario 3, and I've got really the closest analog to three bricks stacked on top of each other in this way. But in C in eventually, uh, our implementation of Mario started to get a little fancy and we started to prompt the user for the height of the p of the wall and therefore we could have not just three but maybe four or even more bricks being printed. So, let me actually open up that version from a few weeks back whereby from week one we had a version of Mario that looked like this whereby we after including some header files declared in main a variable called n. Then we saw a new construct at the time, a dowhile loop that just keeps using get int get int get in so long as n is not uh one or greater equivalently so long as n is less than one and kept prompting the user again and again. The reason for having n up here recall was issues of scope. This therefore it's accessible lower in the function as opposed to it being confined to those curly braces. And then down here we used a for loop to actually print out that many hashes. So in short, the dowhile loop solve the problem in C, whereby you want to get user input at least once and maybe again and again and again if they don't cooperate the first time. And that's where doh loops really shine. Do something at least once and maybe again again and again. Otherwise, it's a little more annoying to do it with while loops or for loops. Unfortunately, Python does not offer a dowhile loop. And so here too, we have an opportunity to introduce you to what the world would call Pythonic. What is Python's solution there too? Well, on the right hand side here in Mario.py, let's change this a little bit and let's do from uh let's go ahead and do uh while whoops while true capital T. Go ahead and use a variable n. Set it equal to int input height asking the human for the height of the wall. And I'm going to just cross my fingers that they're not going to type in cat or dog or something that's not an int. In this case, I'm going to say if n is greater than zero, that is a positive number. That's useful. We can proceed. I'm going to now break out of this loop. And then lower in the file, I'm going to say for i in range of n, go ahead and print out the hashes. So we still have that same lesson as before, like the Python version seems to be shorter, more concise, even if you ignore the comments on the lefth hand side. And I've completely avoided using a dowhile loop. But there are a few things that are different nonetheless that feel like versus C shouldn't even work. Like what's weird about this solution even though I think it's actually correct? &gt;&gt;