that we didn't necessarily give this name. A dictionary is yet another abstract data type that's sort of everywhere in the world literally in the world of dictionaries containing words and their definitions. And you can think of a dictionary really in the abstract if you were to draw this on the chalkboard as really just a two column table whereby on the left is the word and on the right is the definition. And if it's a physical book, it's essentially the same thing with lots of columns of words on the left, often bold-faced, and then the definitions right next to them. You can also see this in the context of like a phone book, which is where we began the course in week zero, where it's essentially a dictionary of names and numbers instead of words and definitions. And a computer scientist would generalize the notion of a dictionary further and just call the thing on the left a key and the thing on the right a value. And these things are omniresent in computing. And you're going to start to see them all the more today. next week and beyond in that if you just want to associate some piece of data with another piece of data, a so-called key value pair, a dictionary is going to be your go-to data type. But even these two we can implement in different ways for reasons that we've already seen. Like maybe there's only a finite size to this dictionary if we're using an array. Maybe we can do better than that. And maybe a dictionary if implemented one way is going to be fast. Maybe if implemented another way is going to be slow. So we'll consider these other design possibilities today too in the context of phone books and other data structures as well. After all, if you have an iPhone or an Android phone and Apple or Google only decided that you can have 50 friends because they implemented the contacts app in an array. I mean that would be an annoying limitation. So presumably they've done things a little more dynamically as we'll do today. So let's focus on the first of the data structures we saw back in week 2. That is an array which recall was just a chunk of memory where you can store values in it back to back to back and that was the fundamental definition. The values are back to back to back or contiguous in memory and as we've seen we generally have to decide in advance the size of an array. So for instance if we want to store three values like 1 2 and three it might look pictorially like this or in code let's go ahead and implement this same idea and take a moment to whip up our very first program here and we'll call it say list C. And in this program, let's just do something demonstrative of how you could use arrays to store three things in memory. It's quite simply the numbers 1 2 3, but you can imagine it being three people's names, three sweaters, three people, or any other piece of data as well. So, I'm going to go ahead and at the top of list C include standard io.h. I'm going to then do int main void. So, no command line arguments. Then, I'm going to go ahead and give myself an array of integers of size three called list. And that's how we've done that uh from week two onward. Then just for the sake of discussion, I'm going to hardcode some representative values. So the first value will be at location zero because arrays are zero indexed. Then I'm going to do the second value which will be two. And then the third value which will be at location two, but the value will be three. Now just to prove that we've stored this correctly in memory, let's just do a quick for loop for int i equals uh equals z. Uh i is less than 3 i ++. And then inside of this for loop, I'm just going to do a quick print f of percent i back slashn printing out the value of list at location i. So it's not a useful program per se, but it gives us an array to play with. It prints out that what's in it. So hopefully we will see one, two, and three on the screen. So let me make this list program dot /list enter. And voila, we're on our way going. All right. But what if now we actually want to uh change that design and be like, "Oh, shoot. I now have a fourth number that I want to store or just bought a fourth sweater or a fourth person wants to get in line or I want to add a fourth friend to my contacts. Whatever the scenario might be, it stands to reason that ideally you would plop that fourth value right here in memory so that everything remains contiguous. You're still using an array. Your code doesn't really have to change except for the length. All for for all intents and purposes, it's the same implementation using a just a bit more memory. But recall that when you declare an array of a fixed size, you only are getting promised that chunk of memory, not necessarily more memory to the right, to the left, above or below conceptually because recall in the context of your whole computer, you've got this canvas of memory, all of which represent here bytes. And there could be a whole bunch of actual values or garbage values in memory. So in a more complicated program, that 1 2 3 sure might end up here. But if I also had created a string in this program, h e l o comma world might have also ended up right next to it in memory. Which means I can't just plop the four here because then if I'm still using that string elsewhere in my program now it's going to say hello world instead of hello world because you're just claiming the h that bite as your own which does not in fact belong to your array. Of course there looks like there's plenty of other memory I could use here because these garbage values represented by Oscar are not being used. They've been used in the past, but we treat garbage values as memory we could reuse. Certainly. So, wouldn't it be nice to maybe just plop the 1 2 3 and four in this chunk of memory over here? And I can totally do that. But, of course, if I want to do that, I got to copy the first three values over and then put the fourth one there and then presumably give back to the operating system the memory I no longer need. So, that in fact when using arrays is a perfectly valid solution. And I think we can go ahead and do this in our same program. So let me go back to VS Code here. And instead of statically allocating memory for this array and by static I mean literally hard hard- coding the number three here in a way that is permanent uh effectively. Let me go ahead and do this instead. At the top of my code, let me delete the static allocation of that in uh that array before. And now let me leverage my understanding if still preliminary of pointers and memory management from this past week four to just dynamically allocate a guess at how much memory I need initially. So I'm going to go ahead and use maloc and allocate space for three integers but integers take up a few bytes and it's usually is four but just for good measure I'm going to say times whatever the size of an int is is the total number of bytes I want. So presumably it's going to be 3 * 4 equals 12. But I'm generalizing it. But then recall that maloc returns the address of that chunk of memory, the address of the first bite. So if I want to create an array effectively called list, I can't just do int list like this yet. But what I could say is that all right now my list variable is actually going to be the address of an integer and set maloc's return value equal to that. So in code here what I've done is I'm asking on the right hand side the operating system please give me 12 contiguous bytes in memory. All of those bytes of course can be numerically addressed like ox123425. We've had that story before. Maloclock by definition returns the address of the first such byte and it's on me to remember that I allocated 12 if need be. So I'm just storing the address of that first bite in a pointer called list. But recall from last week, there's this functional equivalence we saw between treating a pointer as an array and sometimes even treating an array like a pointer. The C uh language sort of lets us do this this conversion if you will. So what I could do here now is quite the same syntax as before. I could say list bracket 0 gets one, list bracket one gets two, list bracket two gets three. And even though I have this fancy new line inspired by week four, the syntax thereafter can be exactly the same. Why? Well, recall that these three lines here using square bracket notation is just syntactic sugar for the stuff we learned last week. Specifically, I could instead of doing list bracket zero, I could much more arcanely say go to that address in list and put the number one there, please. I can say go to the address list + one and put the value two there. I could then say finally go to the address at list + two and put the number three there. But this looks ridiculous and even u sort of an experienced programmer might not be inclined to do this. If with using fewer keystrokes and more readable code, they could just do instead what I did the first time around, which is functionally the same, and just treat that chunk of memory as though it's an array. and the computer will essentially do the requisite pointer arithmetic to figure out where to put one, two, and three. So even though this is still kind of fresh, hot off the press from last week, it's exactly the same as we tinkered with last week. So suppose now that some time passes and I realize for the sake of the story that oh shoot, I need more than three integers. I need space for four so as to achieve this picture in memory. Well, I could of course just like delete all that code, change the three to a four, redo the whole thing, recompile the code, rerun it. But let me propose that we write our code in a way that allows us to change our mind while the program is running how much memory we actually need. And case in point, if you meet someone new, you want to add them to your phone. Well, you obviously don't want to have to wait for Apple to recompile the contacts app, reboot your phone just to add one more person. You want the program just to ask the operating system for more memory for that new person. So in this case, let's just pretend that some time passes and now I want to go ahead and actually change my mind and instead allocate space for four integers instead. Well, I could do something like this. I could just say literally list equals maloc of 4* size of int semicolon. I don't need to redeclare list on line 13 because it already exists from line five. But this is bad because what have I done wrong here in line 13? I've made a poor decision. Yeah, in front. &gt;&gt; You like waste all the memory that &gt;&gt; Yeah, I'm wasting all of the memory I had from line five because I'm essentially forgetting where it is. If the list pointer is literally a pointer, like a foam finger pointing somewhere in memory, what I'm really doing is saying point it over here now, but I've completely lost track of those other three integers in memory. And that's what we described last week as a memory leak, which you could find with valgrren. And if you didn't find it or fix it in code, eventually the computer and the program would slow down over time. So this is probably bad. It's not good to just unilaterally change your mind and say, "No, no, no, forget about that memory. Give me a new chunk of memory." especially if you want to copy the old memory into the new, just like I did a bit ago when trying to get the 1 2 3 into the bigger chunk of memory that can fit 1 2 3 4. So, how might I do this? Well, a temporary variable is kind of our go-to solution anytime we need to remember something in addition to uh something we already have in mind. So, let me just give myself a temporary variable called tmp by convention for short and set the return value of this mala call to that. And then what I could do is something like this. Much like my print statement earlier, I could do another for loop and say for int i equals 0, i is less than 3, i ++. And then in this for loop, I could say treat that new chunk of memory as an array like we can set the i location equal to the i location in list. So these lines here copy old list into new list. It copies those first three values. And then what I bet I could do at the bottom here is then just manually I can say go to the fourth location which when you zero index is technically bracket three and set that equal to the number four. So these lines here copy the one, the two, and the three using a loop. And then line 20 here at the moment just adds the fourth value. And again, this is a stupid sort of way to write code in that if you want to put the four there, you should have just done it earlier. I'm just pretending that some time has indeed passed in the program. and I've changed my mind along the way and I want to let the user add some value to memory. Okay, but before we proceed further, I dare say that there are some other mistakes we should clean up. One of the lessons I preached last week was that anytime you use Maloc, what should you do or check for is you should always what? You should always free. So here I'm clearly not freeing any memory. So I should definitely do that. And there was one other rule of thumb with memory. What should you always do when using Malik? &gt;&gt; Check to see if null came back, which just means something is wrong, like it's out of memory or something else went wrong. And if you don't do that, your program may very well crash with one of those segmentation faults that we saw uh briefly in the past. So, it makes the code a lot more bloated, but it is good practice. So, let's just check if the list pointer I get back contains null. There's no point continuing on. Let's just go ahead and immediately return one because something has indeed gone wrong. And then down here under maloc again, let's do the same. If the temporary pointer also contains null, now let's go ahead and similarly return one or any other nonzero value. But here's a subtlety and let me combine your two ideas. If I immediately return one on line 20 after the second maloc call fails, what should I still go back and do first? Yeah. Yeah. You want to elaborate on your first instinct? &gt;&gt; Yeah. I want to still free the first chunk of memory because if we execute line five and all is well, which means that line 6, 7, 8, and 9 don't apply. Like it's not in fact null. We got back a legitimate value. That means we have a chunk of memory given to us for three integers, which means it still exists down here at line 19 and 20. So if I'm ready now to abort this program and return one to signify error, I first want to free that original list and say to the operating system, here's your memory back. Now, as an aside, strictly speaking, this is not necessary because the moment the program itself quits, the computer is just going to give back the memory to the operating system. So when programs quit, the memory leaks sort of go away, but your code is still buggy. And generally we're running software that doesn't run for a split second but for minutes, hours, days, uh continually in which case it's best practice to squash these memory related bugs now. Check for null, free any memory so that you never indeed encounter these kinds of leaks. All right, so let's forge ahead a little bit more and let me propose that after we have done the copy, we now want to similarly free the original list. However, what I think we're going to want to do first is after freeing the original list is remember that the new list is effectively that which we allocated the second time around. So even though this program is getting a little long, notice that what I've just done is I've said, okay, store in the list variable the address of this new chunk of memory. So that list now with a foam finger is effectively pointing here instead of up here. But before that, I made sure to free what my finger was pointing at originally, the list pointer. All right. Lastly, let's just scroll down to the bottom of the code here. I can manually change the three to a four just to demonstrate that I've stored all four values in here. And then at the very end of the program, I think I have to free the list again because now list is pointing all the foam finger to the bigger chunk of memory, the 1 2 3 4. And then I can go ahead and return zero at the very end because all is hopefully well at this point. Let me go ahead and open my terminal window again and make this version of list. I made a lot of mistakes here it seems. Let's scroll up to the very first call to undeclared library function maloc dot dot dot. What have I apparently done wrong or forgotten? What have I done wrong? Yeah. In back. Yep. Yeah. So in standard lib.h H is where maloc is actually declared. So let's just add that quickly. Let's go ahead and include standard lib.h in addition to standard io.h. Let me clear my terminal window. Rerun make list. Enter. Now we're good. Dot /list. And ph we see 1 2 3 4. Okay. So at this point in the story, all we've done is write a dopey little program that allocates memory for three integers. 1 2 and three. then changes our mind and allocates more memory for four integers, freeing the original chunk of memory after copying the first three integers into the new memory and adding that fourth value. But this is kind of a lot of hoops to jump through. And let me propose one refinement here. So if back in VS Code, we go back into list.c here. It turns out that at least this loop isn't strictly necessary, not to mention the fact that we already have another loop for just printing the list. If I want to more cleverly reallocate memory, it turns out that there's another function that we didn't talk about last week, but is in standard lib.h2 called realloclock, which as the name kind of suggests, it reallocates memory, but a little smarter in that it will try to grow your existing chunk of memory if it can, which is going to be super efficient because then you can just plop the four at the very end. or if there just isn't room there because maybe someone else put hello world right there in memory elsewhere in your program. It's going to do all of the copying for you. So what you get back ultimately is a pointer to the new chunk of memory containing all of the original data as well. However, we're still going to have to check for null. We're still going to want to free the original list if something goes wrong and then return one. We're still going to want to add the fourth value because realo has no idea what more we want to put in the list. But I can in fact delete my other for loop whose purpose in life was just to copy all of those integers from old into new. All right, that was a lot. Let me pause for any questions. &gt;&gt; How does real know that it should reallocate the memory in list? Should you tell like if you have a lot of before, how does it specifically? &gt;&gt; Very good question. That's because I wrote a bug uh that we didn't trip over because I didn't compile this version of the code. So the question is how does realloc know what to realloclock? Well, according to the documentation which I forgot to read, you need to tell realloclock what the address is of the chunk of memory that you do want to realloc. So the first argument to realloc, which I did admittedly forget until a moment ago, is to put the address of the chunk of memory that you already maloced earlier so that it knows to go there, see if there's indeed some garbage values it can reclaim at the end of that chunk of memory or if it has to wholesale move things elsewhere in memory to give you four times the size of the int this time instead of just three. But still things can go wrong like you still want to check for this null value because real might not be able to give you enough memory or your memory could just be so fragmented that even though you want four bytes maybe there's three bytes over here two bytes over here one bite over here if there aren't four contiguous bytes realloclock 2 could fail and it will return null to signify as much other questions on any of this &gt;&gt; why do we still need the tempable &gt;&gt; why do we still need the temp variable for the same reasons as before because if we just say list equals reallock and something does go wrong. Realloc by definition will return null but not touch the original memory which case we have now lost track of where that original chunk of memory is. So we can never go back to it to print it to change it to free it. So we have to use this temporary variable here. Good question. Other questions? Yeah. &gt;&gt; Is there a reason? Is there a reason that we free list instead of temp? Uh, so let me So down here or further down? Okay, so further down, let me scroll down to where we came from. So here after we've added this fourth value to temp, I've gone ahead and freed list, which at this point in the story is still pointing to the original chunk of memory, the 1 2 3. Then I am updating list as a variable to point to the new chunk of memory. Then I'm doing my thing by printing out all of the integers therein. Then I am freeing what list is then pointing to. So I'm not technically freeing the same address in memory multiple times because I'm in the intervening time moving what list is pointing to. &gt;&gt; Absolutely yes. it would be correct to go ahead down here and just say temp because temp is still in scope. It's still pointing at the same thing. I would just argue that that's semantically wrong because at this point in the code really list is the variable you care about. Temp was really meant to be a throwaway temporary variable and you're asking for trouble if you use a temporary variable later than you the programmer intended. And if a colleague did that too, who knows what you've done with the temp variable in the meantime. Good questions. Yeah, in front Real always goes for the like memory space right after your original place. &gt;&gt; Correct. Realloc will try to give you more memory in the same location as before if there's room at the end. &gt;&gt; The code we made earlier originally instead of realloc &gt;&gt; so realloc will two potential things for you. So if the computer's memory looks like this, you're sort of out of luck because realo can't give you this bite. However, if it finds like four bytes down here, for instance, realloc will not only allocate those four bytes for you, it will then copy the data for you over to it, which is wonderful because it just means we don't need an extra for loop all the time we do this. Yeah, in front. &gt;&gt; How does it know how much data? &gt;&gt; How does it know how much data to &gt;&gt; copy? &gt;&gt; Uh because how much how does the how does real know how much data to copy? Because the operating system and you can think of it as the standard library stdlib.h keeps track of what memory has been allocated for you in the past. So when you pass in that same address, it knows it has essentially a lookup table, a dictionary if you will, that tells it what memory has been allocated already. So you don't have to worry about that. &gt;&gt; Good question. In other programming languages, you don't always have to declare the length of an array. Case in point, Python coming next week. That is because someone else who invented that programming language wrote all of this kind of code for you. And indeed, that's one of the goals with our transition between weeks five and six is to demonstrate that all of these problems are still being solved, just not by you and not by me anymore. We're standing on the shoulders of other smart people who have invented not just new code, but like a new language and a new compiler, or as we'll see, an interpreter for it so that we can hide all of these lower level details. Because honestly, as you can see already, like this is an annoying number of lines of code just to have a conversation about the numbers 1 2 3 4. In Python, we could reduce this code to like two lines of code, one line of code. It's going to be fun. All right, so with that said, the uh among the goals here was to demonstrate that there are a bunch of ways in which we can implement these data types, but let's talk more concretely about what we'll call data structures, which are concrete definitions of how you use the computer's memory to lay stuff out in memory. and using data structures, you can implement stacks and cues and dictionaries and all of these other things. So, we're going to put into your toolkit today a whole bunch of canonical data structures that like every computer scientist does and should know that you necess won't necessarily implement all of the time yourself. But when you use some feature of Python or Java or C++ or some other language, you are choosing among typically implementations of these data structures that someone else has written the code for so that you can just benefit from the functionality and the features thereof like that FIFO property we talked about or LIFO without having to get into the weeds too much yourself. So when it comes to data structures, let's consider that we have at our disposal now a few new pieces of syntax in C and we're going to add just one more today. We saw last week that we have the strruct keyword and we've seen that for a few weeks now. Whenever we want to invent our own data structure, we can use literally strruct. We saw in the past that you can use the dot operator to actually go inside of a structure to get at someone a person's name or their number. And we saw last week the star operator for dreferencing a pointer, dreferencering an address to actually go somewhere like inside of a structure wonderfully. Today we're going to see that you can actually in some cases combine the dot and the asterisk into a single operator with two characters that literally looks like an arrow and that will help reflect the yellow and black drawings that we've done over the past couple of weeks where we have an arrow on the screen pointing somewhere. This literal arrow in code is going to line up with that same concept. So let's introduce the first of our alternatives to arrays. An array again is a contiguous chunk of memory where the values are back to back to back. Among the upsides so fast because like all the data is right there. We've seen since week zero, you can do binary search and just jump around randomly by just doing simple arithmetic to go to the middle the middle of the middle by just dividing by two a couple of times and rounding as needed. But the problem with arrays to be clear is that they are statically uh they are statically all allocated to be a specific size maybe three maybe four but it is a finite value which is problematic because look at all the code we had to write just to resize these things again and again. Well, what if we sort of try to preempt that kind of pain and try to just build up a list by linking it together no matter where the values actually are in memory and move away from this constraint that everything has to be contiguous. After all, as I said a moment ago, if the computer has plenty of memory here, here, here, here, that to collectively is more than enough memory, but none of those individual chunks is quite as big as you need for an array. Well, heck, let's at least try to leverage all of the available memory and stitch together the data structure as opposed to really holding firm this constraint that the array be back to back to back and contiguous. So, a linked list is something you can now build using that syntax from last week and a bit more today in your same canvas of memory. So, that for the sake of discussion, suppose that we want to store first in our list the number one. Well, we all know already that it might very well exist at an address like ox123 for the sake of discussion, but it's somewhere there. Suppose that you want to store a second value in memory, but you didn't think about it initially and so you weren't smart enough to put it like right next to the one and then the next value next to that, but you know somehow from maloc or similar functions that you could put the number two over here at address ox456 for the sake of discussion and similarly there's room for the number three over here at say address ox789. So already we have a list of values in memory, but because they're not continuous, you can't just do some trivial plus+ trick to go from one to the other because they're differing numbers of bytes apart. They're not just backto back one bite. So what if we try to solve that problem in the following way? Instead of just using one bite for each of these values, let me waste a little bit of memory or spend a little bit of memory and have some metadata associated with our data. So data is value or values you care about. Metadata is data that helps you maintain the data you care about. So let me propose that we use two chunks of memory for every value such that the top of each of those chunks represents the actual var you we care about 1 2 and three respectively. And you can perhaps see where this is going. The second chunk of memory that I've allocated to each of these values could perhaps be a pointer to the next one. A pointer to the next one. And if this is the end, we can put our old friend o x0 aka null and just treat that as the end of the list implicitly. So even though these things could be anywhere in memory, by just storing with each value the address of the next value in memory, creating effectively a treasure map or breadcrumbs, however you want to think of it metaphorically, we can get from one node to the other. And indeed, that's going to be a term of art we start using. A node is just a generic structure that contains data and metadata usually like the number you care about and a pointer to the next such node. Um these are not to scale as an aside. This is typically four bytes. A pointer as we've discussed is technically eight bytes but it just looks prettier to draw them as simple squares on the screen. So what does this really mean? Well, who really cares about ox 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9. We can really think of this actually as being more of a picture with arrows. But to keep track of this list of three values, I do propose that we're going to need one additional value over here. And it's deliberately just a single square because to keep track of this list of three values, I'm going to use just one variable called say list and store in that variable a pointer as we defined it last week, the address of the first node. Why? Because the first node can then get me to the second. The second node can then get me to the third and so forth. So what's the upside now? If I want a fourth value somewhere on the screen, I could put it here, here, here, here, wherever there's enough room and just make sure that I update the arrow to point to that next chunk. Update the arrow to point to the next chunk. There's no copying of data. 1 2 and three can stay there now forever until the program quits and we do actually free it. But we can just keep adding adding adding or growing this data structure in memory. So that is what the world knows as a linked list. In Python to which you were essentially alluding um a list in Python is indeed a linked list. Other languages call these vectors but they are essentially arrays that can be grown and shrunken automatically effectively without you having to worry quite as much about it. So how does the code for implementing something like this work? Well, let me propose that we have this familiar friend of a person, which we claimed in past weeks has a name and a number associated with them. We know from last week that strings are not technically a thing in C as a keyword. So that's technically just char star name and number, but same idea otherwise. And this is what we defined in the past as a person. So this is a structure we've seen before. I now need to implement the code equivalent of these rectangles, each of which has an integer and then a pointer to the next such value. So let me propose that we delete what's inside this structure, change the name from person to node, which again is a generic term for a container of values, and let me propose that inside of this new node structure, we put literally an int for the number we care about. There's going to be my 1 2 3 or four. And then and this is a little bit new. Let's include in this structure a pointer to the next such node. It's a pointer in the sense that it's an arrow. It's the address of the next node. So that's why we say node star. I could call it anything I want, but semantically calling it next makes perfect sense because it's the next such node. But this isn't quite right. For annoying technical reasons, I need to do one other thing here. I need to technically and we've not done this before put the name give the a temporary name to this structure if you will. So literally say strruct node here even though I've already said node here. Why? Because I technically need to change this line to say strruct node star. Long story short why is this necessary? Well recall in the past C and the compiler read your code top to bottom left to right. Well if in a previous version of this code we use the word node here but the compiler never sees the word node until down here. like it's just not going to compile because the word literally doesn't exist. We saw this with functions in the past. So we the solution to that was to put the prototype higher up in the file and then it would compile. Okay, you can think of this as somewhat analogous whereby if I give this structure a name on this first line even if it's redundant to this one then I can say struck node inside of these curly braces because the compiler has already seen the word node there. So just you have to do it this way. So now that we have this in code, we can kind of start playing around with actually storing these things in memory. So let me propose that we go ahead and do this by transitioning back to VS code here. And let's instead of using our array based implementation, let's implement the first of our linked lists. And I'm going to be a bit extreme and delete pretty much everything inside of main. I am for convenience now going to include the CS50 library not so much for the char star thing but because as we discussed last week it's still useful for getting ints and getting strings and other things which instead unless you use scanf are much harder and more annoying to get in C. So let's go ahead and do this um outside of main let's go ahead and invent this node called strruct node here. Then inside of my curly braces, we'll give every such node a number and every such node a pointer to the next such node. And we'll call this whole thing node by convention. Then inside of main, let's go ahead and do this one step at a time. Let me propose that to create a linked list. Initially, it's empty. So how do I represent an empty linked list? Well, I could call the variable list and set it equal to null. But what is the data type for a linked list? Well, per the picture that we had up earlier, in so far as all we need is a single pointer at far left here to represent the address of the first node in the list. I dare say all we need to say is that our list is of type node star. That is to say, what is the link list? Well, it's by definition the address of the first node in the list. So that's the first subtlety here. So that gives me a picture with no other nodes. It just gives me a single pointer initialized to null. Now let's go ahead and for par with the previous example just do something three times. So in this for loop structured exactly as before, let's go ahead and allocate a new node, ask the user for a number to put inside of it and then start stitching things together so as to achieve a picture in memory quite like this. So how am I going to do this? Well, first I need to allocate a new node. How do I do that? Well, I can use our new friend Maloc and allocate the size of a node. I want to store the address of this chunk of memory somewhere. And what I'm going to propose is that we have a temporary variable and I'll call this n which whose type is that of a node star. So what am I doing here? I'm trying to build up this list in memory so that I first have a pointer to the list. I I first have a pointer that is null pointing nowhere. no list exists. I then want to go ahead and create one new node, store value in it, and then point my list at that node. Then I want to do it again and again a total of three times. So how do we do this? We allocate space for the size of a node. However many bytes that's going to be, it's probably going to be 12 cuz it's four for the int and eight for the pointer, but who cares? Size of will answer that question for me. I'm going to store the address of this chunk of memory inside of a temporary variable called n for node and that's why it has to be node star because it's going to be pointing to an actual node. I'm going to do my quick sanity check. So if n equals equals null, we can't proceed further. I'm going to go ahead and just return one right now. So that's just sort of boilerplate code you should be in the habit of doing anytime you're using Maloc. But if all goes well, let's do this. Let's go to the address in n and then go inside of that node and change its number to be whatever the human wants it to be by using get int and just prompt the human for their favorite number. Then let's go to that same node and update the next field to equal for now null because all I want to do is allocate one new node with that number. That's it. Then I'm going to need to stitch this together further. So I'll propose that all we need do and let's clean this up first is now make sure that we string these nodes together. This syntax isn't quite right because technically because of precedence I need to drefer oops I need to uh dreference n and then go inside of it. I need to dreference n and then go inside of it. However this syntax if it's looking a little overwhelming and you have no idea now what's going on. Thankfully in C there's much simpler syntax which is this. Go to the node and go inside it to get the number. Go to the node and go inside it to get next. So the arrow notation that I promised we would now have is the same thing as using the star operator the deep reference operator parenthesizing it. Then the dot operator which is just a pain in the neck to write out all the time. I dare say n arrow number and n arrow next is just much simpler. It says go to n and point at the number field or the next field respectively. All right. So the last thing I'm going to propose we do and then we'll make this much more clear in picture form is this. Let's go ahead and prepend the node to the list. And by prepend I mean insert it at the beginning. Insert it at the beginning. Insert it at the beginning again and again. I'm going to say n next equals list. Then update the list to set equal to n. And then after all of this mess, I'm going to return zero. Okay, this was a huge amount of code, but let me give a quick recap. Then we'll paint a picture. Here is my init list initially. So the foam finger is pointing to null, which is means the list is of size zero. There's nothing there. Then I ask the computer to do this three times. Give me enough memory for a new node. Then after checking that it's not null, put the user's favorite number in it and update the next field for the moment to null. Then lastly, go ahead and prepend this brand new node to the existing list. And by preand prepend, I mean put it at the front. So n at this moment is pointing to that new node. And I'm saying, you know what, whatever the current list is, empty or otherwise, set the next pointer equal to the list, whatever that list is, and then change the list to point at this new node. So now let's do this more carefully, step by step, in picture form. So I'm going to propose that we go through some of these representative lines as follows. Here is the first line of code even without the assignment. If you just allocate a variable called list that's a pointer to a node, what you essentially has is a box of memory that looks like this. It's a garbage value though because there's no assignment operator. So who knows what's inside of this pointer. That is why in my actual code I set it equal to null which effectively creates in memory the same box but gets rid of Oscar the Grouch and puts the null value there. So we know it's not a garbage value. It's a pointer known as null. So that's what that very first line of code did in the computer's memory. The next thing I wanted to do was allocate enough memory for a node, not a node star, for a whole node. I want that whole chunk of a rectangle given to me in memory. That's going to return to me the address of the first bite thereof. And I'm going to store that in a temporary variable called n. So at this point in the story, n is going to be a pointer of its own, another box that initially sure is going to be a garbage value, but because I am using the assignment operator, it's going to point to that chunk of memory which maloc if successful presumably allocated for me in the computer's memory. So n for all intents and purposes points at that same chunk. These values are still garbage values because it's just a chunk of memory. Who knows what it's been used before? But that's why after this line of code, I took care to get an int from the user and then initialize the next pointer to null. So for instance, for the sake of discussion, let's get rid of get int for the picture and just say the human typed in the number one initially. Well, that's equivalent to putting the one in the number field by first going to the address of in n and then dreferencing it using the star and the dot notation respectively. So that means follow the arrow and then change number to the value one. Then the next line of code or rather or equivalently you can just do the same thing. And thankfully now C syntax lines up with what the pictures look like we've been drawing. Go to N follow the arrow to the number field. That's literally what the syntax is telling me. Meanwhile, if I use that same syntax again for N arrow next set it equal to null. That's like saying go to N follow the arrow and change the next field in this case to null. or we'll just blank it out to be clear. So at this point in the story, we have allocated the node. We have stored one and null. There list is still null. N is pointing to this, but the whole point of this exercise is to add this node to the list. So we need to somehow update this value, which is why ultimately I'm going to do something like list equals N. Now that seems a little weird semantically, but recall that N is a pointer. That is the address pointing at ox123 or wherever that is. So to point list at the same node, it's equivalent to setting list equal to n because then we'll effectively have an arrow identical from list pointing at that new node. And at this point, I don't even care what n is anymore. It was always meant to be a temporary value. This now is my list. So even though I did it in code already pre preemptively in a loop, the first iteration for that loop literally created this in memory. Let me pause before we go through numbers two and three for any questions because the VS Code version looks scary. This is perhaps a little more bite-sized. Okay. So, how about we do this twice more for two and three, respectively. So, again, inside of our loop, we're back to this line, which asks the operating system for enough memory for the size of a node, stores that address temporarily in a variable called n. So, here's our friend Oscar brought back onto the screen. Maybe the new chunk of memory is over there. This effectively points n at that chunk of memory. The next line of code inside of that loop that's relevant is this. And we'll get rid of get int and just pretend that I literally typed in two. We're going to go to this version of n, follow the arrow, go to the number field, and set that equal to two. The next line of code, we start at the end, follow the arrow, change the next field to null. And then same lines as before, we now need to update list equaling n. But something's about to go wrong here. If I update list to point to the same node that n is pointing at, watch what happens. I set list equal to that n because it's temporary might as well go away at this point. But what have I done wrong logically here? &gt;&gt; you lost the arrow to &gt;&gt; Yeah, I lost the arrow to the original node. I have orphaned the first node because now nothing in my code is actually pointing at it. I've got in duplication two pointers pointing at this chunk of memory. So this thing, even though we obviously as humans can still see it, we have lost track in code of where it is, which means that is the definition of a memory leak. I can never get that back or give it back to the operating system until the program itself finally quits. So, I think I need to be a little smarter and not do this line quite like this yet. I think what I want to do, and I've rewound, so list is still pointing to the original list. N is pointing to only the new node. What I think we need to do is something like this. And this is why the code was fairly non-obvious in VS Code at first. Go to N, follow the arrow, go to the next field, and here's the cleverness. Point this pointer to the existing lists value. So if the existing list is pointing here, that just means, hey, point this to the exact same thing because now I can safely update the list to point at the same thing as n. So its arrow now points here. But even when I get rid of n, I wonderfully have the whole thing stitched together. And the metaphor I often think of is like around like Christmas time in olden times when people would like stitch popcorn together. That's what you're kind of doing with a thread here. You're trying to stitch together these nodes or popcorn kernels if you will such that one can lead you to the next can lead you to the next can lead you to the next but you can never let go of part of that strand in the process. So here now we have a list which is great because notice we haven't touched the one but we've added the two. We can go ahead in a moment and add the three but you can perhaps see where this is going. I'm kind of doing it backwards by accident but we'll get there soon. So now let's allocate a new node run through in our mind's eye all of those same steps. I'm going to hopefully end up with a list that now looks like this. And even though it's kind of long and stringy, these values could be anywhere in memory, but because of these various pointers, I can jump from one location to the other, making more efficient use of everything inside of the computer's own memory. All right, but of course, we've got this symptom that I didn't really intend whereby the whole darn thing is backwards. But I think that's kind of okay for now. But I'd like to propose that we consider how we can now maybe traverse this thing and actually print out the values in memory. So let me go ahead and do this. Let's go ahead and how about let's say let's go back to VS code here. So at this point in the story we've got the same code that implements that same idea except I'm using get int just so that I can dynamically type in the one the two and the three without having to hardcode it into the actual code. Suppose that after doing this exercise, I actually want to do something interesting like print the numbers. Well, we don't have that code yet in this version of my program. So, let's bring that back. Last time I did this just using a for loop and array notation. And I think I can do that. But let me propose first that I implement this idea pictorially. Here's the same diagram. This is what exists in the computer's memory. If I want to go ahead and print out these numbers, albeit in reverse order, let me propose that we can do this by giving ourselves another temporary variable. We'll call it ptr, pointer for short. And that's like having another foam finger that points at the start of the list. So it's not pointing at list. It points at whatever list is pointing at, which means here. Then I can print out the three pretty easily. So long as I next update pointer to point to the two, print it out. then point it to the one, print it out, and eventually I'm going to realize, oh, I'm out of nodes because the end of this list is null. So that's the idea I want to implement now logically in code. Create a temporary variable called pointer. Set it equal to whatever the list itself is. Print out the value, update the pointer, print out the value, update the pointer, realize it's null, and stop. So in code, it's a relatively small loop, even though the syntax is still pretty new since we've only just started playing with memory since last week. But what I'm going to do is exactly what I proposed. I'm going to create a new pointer called ptr and set it equal to the list itself. That's like having another foam finger temporarily pointing at the first element in the list. Then what I'm going to do is say while that temporary variable is not null, go ahead and traverse the list. What do I mean by that? Well, let's go ahead and print out the current element in the list by using percent i back slashn and printing out whatever the pointer is pointing at specifically its number field. So that is follow the arrow and print out the number. Then inside of this loop, I'm going to update after doing that my temporary variable called pointer to be equal to pointer arrow next. And that will have the effect with just those few lines of code of implementing precisely this idea. I first set pointer equal to the list which happens to point here first. I then do my print f and then I update the next field rather I update pointer to be the value of pointer follow the arrow next. So if this is ox123 for instance that is what is now in oh sorry if this is ox456 that is what's now in pointer. So the arrow effectively looks there in my for loop I print out with percent i this number and then I go to the next field follow the arrow and then set it equal to rather whatever this pointer is here ox789 set it equal to the pointer there. So I effectively move the arrow there. Then lastly, I update ptr to point to the value of this next field which is null. Which means effectively pointer itself is null. Which means the for loop cleverly stops now because I was supposed to do this whole loop while pointer is not null but pointer is now null. And just as an aside, if you prefer the semantics of a for loop, there's nothing new here per se. I can do this exact same thing using a for loop simply as follows. And it's a little tighter to implement as follows. I can say for instead of int i equals z in that old approach. I can actually use pointers in a for loop like this. For node star pointer equals the start of the list. Keep doing something so long as pointer does not equal null. And on each iteration of this loop, update the pointer to equal whatever the pointer's own next field is. And then inside of this for loop print out using percent i back slashn the current pointers number field semicolon. So here is where again we see the equivalence of for loops and while loops. What you can do with one you can do with the other. This is a little more elegant in that you can express a whole lot of logic in one line of the for loop. Frankly I do think the first version is nonetheless more readable. So let me undo undo undo undo everything I just did. On the courses website you'll see both of these versions. This one's a little more pedantic as to what it's doing step by step. Okay, that two was a lot. Let me pause here to see if there are any questions. And if you're feeling like that fire hose like this is why we transition to Python where all of this now gets swept under the rug but is still happening just not by us in a week. Questions? Yeah, really good question. So we I I here I've been preaching like we don't want to lose memory. We don't want to leak memory. And here I am fairly extravagantly now spending twice as much memory to maintain this data structure. That's going to be among the themes with all of the data structures we talk about. If we want to gain some benefit like dynamic growth and shrinking of the data structure, you got to give me something. And what you've got to give me in this case is the ability to use more space. Um, in a bit today and after break in particular, we're going to decide we'd really like these algorithms to be faster. Well, that's fine, but you're going to have to give me something in return. You're going to have to spend more space to make the code faster. And so time and space and financial cost and human time and any number of other resources are all things that you need to evaluate as a programmer or a manager and decide which is least andor most important to you. And right now I don't care about space as much as I care about the dynamism that I'm trying to solve first. Other questions on here? Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yes. Why am I using pointer instead of n? I Well, yes, I could reuse n at this point. I deliberately chose to use pointer for two reasons. One, I'm using it for different reasons here. Um, two, it's not necessarily the best idea to use one variable here for a specific purpose and then reuse the name down here besides it's out of scope at this point anyway. Um, so it just makes me feel better that I have different variables doing different things, but it would not break if I did it your way. Yeah. And back &gt;&gt; are pointers temporary? Not necessarily. Like the linked list we are building up in memory exists because we are using pointers to build this data structure and to keep it intact for as long as the program is running. My temporary variables n and pointer ptr in this case those are ephemeral and I'm only using them to kind of stitch things together temporarily. A good question. All right. So let's now motivate why we're spending so much time sort of stitching these things together so carefully. Well, here's our little cheat sheet of common but not exhaustive running times. Let's consider what the running time is for some fairly basic operations like inserting a number into a linked list, maybe searching for a number in a link list or traversing it uh and also deleting ultimately numbers in a linked list. So here is my list initially completely empty. And suppose I go ahead and insert the one, then I insert the two, then I insert the three using code like we just wrote. I love this approach because even though it looks a little scary at first, this is probably the simplest way to implement insertion into a linked list. Why? Because I'm just constantly prepending the next element. Prepending, prepending, which means all of my hard work is just here at the beginning of the list. So even if this thing has a thousand elements in it, I'm only manipulating some pointers all the way over here pictorially at the left, which means it's pretty darn fast. So given that definition in this picture, what would you say the big O running time is of insertion into a link list when using my current implementation? &gt;&gt; Big O of one. Why? Well, it's not literally one step, but it is a constant number of steps because if we literally counted the lines of code I was executing, it's a a few steps to sort of point one thing up here, point the other thing down here, then update the third, and boom, we're done. In particular, what my current code does not care about is the whole length of this list. Why? Because I'm never traversing the whole thing for the insertion part. I am obviously for the printing part, but for the insertion, I'm just prepending again and again. The downside though of this approach is that the whole darn thing is coming out backwards. I'm not doing anything with regard to the ordering of these elements, which means what's the running time of search going to be? For instance, if I tell you search for like the number one, find it for me. What's the running time going to be there in big O? Big O of yeah, big O of N because in the worst case, it's going to be all the way at the end. And we've seen this scenario before. So, it's big O of N for searching. It's definitely big O of N for traversing or printing. But that goes without saying. If you want to print every element, obviously you have to touch every one of the N elements. But what about deletion? Suppose I want to delete an element. That's going to be in big O of &gt;&gt; N. &gt;&gt; Also N. Why? Because again in the worst case it could be all the way at the end. So only insertion as currently implemented is bigo of one because we are exercising full control over where the new elements go irrespective of what the actual values are. So things could escalate quickly here if we do actually want to start keeping things say in sorted order because we can no longer just naively plop things at the very beginning of the list. I think we need to start being a little more careful as to where we put things. So in fact, even though we're doing okay on insert right now, we still have big O of N for the searching and for the deletion, which we won't do in code, um as well as of course for traversal. So how else might we go about building this list? Well, let me propose that we could maybe append to the end of the list. Let's try that and see if it gets us anywhere better. So here's my list initially, completely empty, aka null. I go ahead and insert the number one as before, but now in this algorithm I'm going to insert the number two and the number three. So this is great because now by chance it ended up beautifully in order. But that's because I chose the numbers 1 2 3. But we'll come back to that detail. Let's consider now what the running time is of this algorithm of insertion using appending to the list. What's the big O not big O running time of insertion now? Big O of N. So it's sort of strictly worse because now it's always going at the end. Now I could be a little smart about it. I could just allocate another pointer and just always have another pointer pointing at the end of the list just as I have a pointer pointing to the start of the list. That's totally fine if you're willing to spend one more pointer which is a drop in the bucket. A legitimate solution. But where I'd like to go with this is let's maintain sorted order no matter the order in which the numbers are inserted. Whether it's 1 2 3 3 2 1 213 312 whatever order the human types in the numbers I want to build the structure out such that they always end up in sorted order just so that my contacts in my iPhone or my Android phone for instance are sorted as intended. So how do we go about doing that? Well here we're still dealing with some big O. Let's try this. Here's my list initially empty. Now we the user inserts person number two first. So it ends up there. Then they insert number one. I'd like it to go there. person number four, it goes over there. And then person number three, it ends up here. Even though it's sort of obvious with a piece of paper and pencil how to stitch this together, this is now an annoying number of logical steps because there are so many opportunities where I could screw up and orphan one or more of these nodes. But let's consider the scenarios that might we encount we might encounter. Maybe we get lucky and it's like an empty list and we just have to insert one new node. That is trivial. We've done that already. The two was super easy to implement. The one could be really easy to implement too because that involves the prepending scenario and we've seen that prepending is super simple. So there's only two other scenarios to consider appending if it's a really big number and ends up at the end and we've talked about but haven't seen code for that. The annoying one I dare say is going to be when the new number belongs in the middle. But I propose to think through it this way because now you just have four problems to solve not just one massive illdefined problem. You've got scenarios in which you want to insert a new node into an empty list. you want to prepend the new node into the beginning of the list, append it to the end of the list or somewhere in the middle. So that's like four blocks of code in my program. I can now sort of take the proverbial baby steps and implement this bit by bit. And to do this, let me propose that in a moment I'll switch over to VS Code, but uh sort of Julia Child style, I'm going to open up a pre-made version of the program that actually gives us a working solution, albeit initially with some bugs. So here we have out of the oven this version of list C at the top of the file I've got my same includes as before I've got my same structure as before here I've again got in main void I've got the beginning of my list here setting it equal to null and then for the sake of discussion I'm going to insert three values for this example 1 2 and three by allocating enough room for a node setting it equal to n then I'm going to make sure a sanity check that n is not null and then I'm going to populate this with the human's first choice of values. So, let me scroll down. But as such, there's nothing too new just yet. Here we have the lines of code in which I'm getting an int from the user, setting next equal to null, and then I'm prepending no matter what per our earlier version that we did on the fly this new node to the list and then updating the list to point to it. And then down here, I'm printing the number. So, this is where we left off, but this is a pre-made version that's nicely commented. It's on the courses website for reference. What I'm not doing now is intelligently prepending, appending, or plopping the code in the middle. So, how do we do that? Let's take a look at this version of the code. So, everything thus far is the same. And if I scroll down besides the new comments, you'll see that now I'm starting to make some decisions after I have allocated the new node and populated its number and next field. As an aside, I don't strictly need to initialize the next field to null because eventually, as we've done in every past example, I've updated that next field anyway. However, because this one might now end up at the end of the list, and I just want to program defensively, initializing pointers to null before you're ready to assign their value is a good thing in general. So, here's the first of the questions I'm going to ask myself. If the list into which I am inserting this new node is empty, so it's the beginning of the story. Super easy. Just set the list equal to the address of that new node, and we're done. That's what happened when I inserted a bit ago the number two for the very first time. So indeed what has just happened here is that now the list previously empty contains only a node containing two. However, thereafter there was another scenario. So when we moved on in our story and added the number one to the list, well that happened to end up at the beginning but it could also end up at the end or in the middle. So let's break down those scenarios here too. So here if it is not the case that the list is empty in that if condition we're going to end up here now in the else. What do I want to do here? Well let's go ahead and for now in this simplified version append it to the end of the list so we can see that code. How do I do this? Well I'm using a for loop much like the one I had before which just allows me to traverse the existing list whether it has one node or many. And I'm gonna ask a question. If following the current nodes pointer field, next field leads me to null, aka the end of the list. Okay, let's go ahead and update the end of the list to actually equal the new node. So in other words, if I'm sort of following following following all of the arrows and I reach a node whose next field is null, no problem. Update that next field to point to the new node I want to insert. Irrespective of the values, I just want to append this node. no matter what. And then I want to break out of the code. Then at the bottom of this version of the program, it's all quite the same, printing out the numbers using the for loop version of my code from before instead of the while loop, but they're equivalent. But what I did do in advance in baking this version of the program is also go through the motions of freeing every one of the nodes afterward, but we'll come back to that. So this version of the code, just to be clear, only appends nodes to the list. It's still not treating things in order. But we've now seen two of the scenarios plucked off. The list is empty or it has numbers and we want to put something at the end. So let me propose now that I take out of uh our distribution code another version of this program that does that and a bit more. I'm going to go ahead and open up in just a moment a new and improved version of list.c. And now it looks almost the same at the top. Scrolling down. Scrolling down. Scrolling down, here's some now familiar code. If the list is empty, do that simple thing as before and just prepend it. Uh rather just set it equal to the list. But here is now where we're adding some inequality. So if the number in question belongs at the beginning of the list. So if the number in the new node n is less than the number in the current list which is presumed to be the first node at the moment then go ahead and update the new node's next field to point at the existing list and then update the list to point at this new node thereby giving us from two in the list to one and two in the list. To be clear, if I go back to VS Code here, what's happened here is because one is less than two, of course, I'm going to update the new nodes next field to point to the list. What does this mean? Well, the new node at this point in the story is the new node for the number one because that's the second thing we're inserting. I'm going to update its next field to be whatever the list a moment ago was already pointing at. So this is the after effect but a moment ago list was pointing at only the two. So now the next field of the one points at the two and then lastly here in this line I update the list pointer to be the address of that new node. And here's where I'll wave my hand a little bit today because it starts to escalate quickly. It's useful and it might very well be useful for problem set five in particular, but I think more healthily reviewed step by step at a slower pace. Here is where I'm asking myself, all right, if it's not the only element in the list and it doesn't belong at the beginning of the list, well, it belongs somewhere later in the list, which gives me two final scenarios. Let's figure out which scenario we're in. Let's use this for loop to iterate over all of the as as many of the nodes in the list as we need to. If we get all the way to the end, because our pointer variable now equals null, it's like following the arrows, following the arrows, and maybe we're trying to insert the number five. I've already hit the number four. I've hit null. five belongs at the end. So here we have our promised append code which is exactly the same as before but now I'm doing it conditionally if I've indeed found my way to the end of the list. And then lastly, let me scroll down just a little bit. If it's not the case that the list is empty and it's not the case that the new node belongs at the beginning and it's not the case that the new node belongs at the end, I'm just somewhere in the middle of the list because the new number I'm inserting is less than the one I'm looking at here. And it's okay to use two arrows, but I'll wave my hands at that for now. These three lines, two pointer manipulations and a break is what's going to stitch together that three in between the two and the four. And let me propose for lecture sake, take this on faith that this collectively does stitch things together properly. But I do think as you'll see in problem set five, it's a much better exercise to think through a little more carefully step by step because there's just a lot of fine-tuning of these pointers together and the order of operations does matter. But at the very end of this program, notice this is kind of mindless even though the syntax is undoubtedly less familiar. Here is how just like traversing the whole list to print it out, we can similarly do one more pass over the linked list and free every one of the nodes. But notice it's not quite as simple as just saying free the whole list. Free is not that smart. Maloc is not that smart. And even though you have called maloc one, two, three times, you have to really call free. You have to call free one, two, three times. You can't just pass at the beginning of the link list and say you figure out what to delete cuz it has no idea what a linked list is or what your data structure actually is. So the reason that this loop is a little complicated is that what I'm doing with these three lines is essentially traversing my list and making sure that I have a pointer that when I'm ready to delete the three, the one, I have a pointer pointing at the two and then I free the one. I update my pointer to point at the three and then I delete the two. I update my pointer to point at the four, then I delete the three, and then I delete the four. So, there's a bit of trickery involved in making sure you don't orphan things step by step. Okay, that was a lot. Let me pause here to see if there are in fact any questions, even though we're deliberately waving our hands at some of those details. Questions on this? Now, let me add one final flourish. If we were to really quibble over this, I mean, my god, we're up to 80 lines of code already just to implement the numbers one, two, three, four. But there are some subtle bugs in here at the moment. So, for instance, suppose that something goes wrong with maloc inside of this for loop here. And suppose that it's not your first iteration, something goes wrong on maybe the second or the third iteration. Why is this error check suddenly bad as I've implemented it? I didn't free the memory from the previous iteration. So this is where like oh like memory management starts to get really annoying because if you do want to practice what I've been preaching which is free any memory you've allocated and you've already allocated one maybe two nodes because maloc is again failing maybe at the last iteration here you have to somehow go back and free all of that and that's fine like we have code at the bottom of my file here which could traverse through the existing list and just free it all. So I could just copy paste that code, put it into my if condition and then run that code too to delete the whole list. But at this point if you're copying and pasting you're probably doing something wrong. And so let me propose as a final version of this just for your reference later in the ninth and final in version nine of this file here zero indexed what we have. Give me one second to just make a quick copy and copy it over in list 9. see our last version of this. We have the following whereby now in my function uh in my main function I have the exact same code as before but I've taken the liberty of implementing an unload function so that I can call it here as well as at the bottom of this main function. So I can unload it here or unload the list there. And all I've done now is in good form in terms of design just implement the notion of deleting a linked list in its own function. So I could call it any number of times from any number of places. But just so you've seen how I might do that there. All right. So let's ask the question after all of this. What is the running time of inserting into a linked list? Big O of say a little big O of &gt;&gt; N. Damn it. Like that's no better. All right. What's the running time of searching a link list? &gt;&gt; Big O of N. Damn it. Uh what's the running time of deleting from a link list? &gt;&gt; Big O of N. So like everything is literally big O of N. So there's the price we've suddenly paid. We have an hour after we started with arrays gotten to the point where we can dynamically grow in a linked list and I dare say even though we've not done it and won't do it today, shrink the link list by freeing things that we don't need. So we have the dynamism and we can make more efficient use of memory even if it's very fragmented and there's a few bytes here a few bytes there but we've paid this price because with arrays recall even our phone book example we at least had binary search the running time for which was big O of log so my god not only are we spending more space the darn thing is slower surely this is not how our phone contacts are implemented surely this is not how stacks and cues are always implemented and indeed it's not this is just going to be a stepping stone to now doing a sort of mashup of data structures whereby we take the best features of arrays, the best features of link list, mash them together to get new and improved data structures. But for that, we're going to have to have some cookies first and we'll come back in 10 minutes. Cookies are now served. All right, we are back. So, let's recap how we got here and why. So, we started with our old friends arrays, which we introduced in week two. And recall that the whole appeal of arrays was that one, as all things go, like relatively simple, certainly now in retrospect, but more importantly, they were really darn fast. Like arrays in so far as they are stored backtoback contiguous in memory means that we could do very simple arithmetic recall to like fi figure out the length of it and then divide by two to get the middle divide by two again to get the middle of the middle and so forth. And even though we might have to deal with a little bit of rounding arrays lent themselves to binary search and thus logarithmic time so big O of login. But today I claim that the downside of arrays is that you have to decide in advance how big you want it to be. And if you guess wrong and it's too small how much uh memory you ask for, you then have to reallocate memory. And that's fine. It's solvable with maloc or realloclock. But it's going to take some amount of time to copy all of the old memory into the new memory. Whether you do it with a for loop or mal realloclock does it for you. Meanwhile, we only did it with like three values, maybe four. But imagine it being 3 million values that you now need to allocate more space for. You're going to waste a huge amount of time copying 3 million values from the old location to the new. And so that's just generally not very appealing. And so that motivated our whole discussion of linked lists whereby now we can create a more dynamic data structure whereby we only allocate memory as we need it. So we don't have to worry about underestimating or overestimating and therefore wasting memory. We can just go bit by bit for each new value. We allocate another node, another chunk of memory, and the thing just grows and grows and grows. But as we saw just before break, the downside is even though we're avoiding the inefficiency of having to move stuff around in memory, once allocated, the nodes can stay where they are and we just update our pointers. All of our running times for searching, inserting new elements, deleting old elements would seem to be big O of N. But why was that? Well, in the context of a linked list, recall that it might look a little something like this, whereby we have a pointer called list pointing to maybe four values like this. And suppose that we do want to uh search for a value. Now, it's nice because in our latest version of this linked list, it was sorted from smallest to largest. And that was always a precondition of doing binary search. But even though it's obvious to our human eyes where the middle is, it's like roughly over there. How is the computer going to figure that out? is how is your code that you write? Well, unfortunately, the way we've stitched a link list together with these pointers is if you want to find the middle, you can, but you got to start at the beginning, traverse the whole thing to figure out how long it is, then do it again, and stop halfway through once you know what the halfway point roughly is. Then, if you want to search the middle of the middle, you've essentially got to do that whole process again. And so, now just to use binary search, you need to spend big O of N steps just to even find the middle. Now, if your mind is kind of spinning and you're like, well, maybe I could just kind of cheat and use a pointer to always point to the middle of the list. Totally fine. You can spend in some additional space to remember the be the middle of the list, the end of the list. But where does that stop? What if with binary search, you go not just to the middle, but the middle of the middle, the middle of the middle of the middle, the middle? Are you going to keep around a pointer to every element? Because if you do, you're essentially back to an array if you've got one location for every other location. So it just kind of devolves into a mess. Even though there's some minor optimizations we could in fact make. In fact, we didn't talk about it yet. But one common alternative to a singly linked list, which ours is, it's linked with a single pointer from node to node. Uh computer scientists also like to talk about doubly linked lists where there's arrows going both