of characters in a string? Well, the string is just an array, and that array ends with the null character. There's a bunch of ways we can do this, but let me go ahead and do this. Let me create a variable called n, which eventually will contain the length of the name. And I'm going to set it equal to zero because I don't know anything yet about the length. Then, I can do this with a for loop, but I prefer this time to use a while loop. I'm gonna say the following. While the person's name at that location does not equal backs slashz0, go ahead and add one to the value of n. And then after all of this, go ahead and print out with percent i back slashn the value of n. So what's going on here? This is easier said when you know already where you want to go with it, but with practice, you too can bang this out pretty quickly. n is going to contain the length of my string. I have in my loop here a boolean expression that's just asking the question, does name at the current value of n not equal the null character? In other words, you're asking yourself, is this character null? Is this character null? Is this character null? Is this character null? And if not, you keep going. You keep going. And this is kind of a clever trick because I'm using n and incrementing it inside the loop. So when I look at d, that's not equal to back slashz. So I increment n. Now n is one. So I look at name bracket one. What's at name bracket one if it's my name? A. A does not equal back slashz0. So it increments n. What's at location two in dav ID? V. V does not equal back slashn. So we repeat with i. We repeat with d. And then we get to the end of my name which is the null character because the get string function and c put it there automatically for me. The null character does equal backs slash0. n does not get incremented any more time. So at this point in the story on line 13, n is still five because I have not counted the new the null character. So I hope I will see five on the screen. This is just kind of a very mechanical way of checking checking checking checking trying to figure out uh through inference how long the string is because it's as long as it takes to get to that back slash zero the null character. So, let's do make length. Enter dot slength. Type in my name, David. And I indeed get five. Let's go ahead and dolength Kelly. I indeed get five. And hopefully for shorter and longer names, I'm going to get the exact same thing, too. In fact, we can try a corner case. Dot slashlength. Enter. Let's not give it a name at all. If I just hit enter here, what should the length of the person's name be? Zero. Which is not incorrect. It's literally true. But that's because we're going to get back essentially quote unquote. But even though it's quote unquote in the computer's memory, it's still going to take up one bite because the get string function will still put null at the end of the string even if it's got no characters therein. So it turns out this is not something you need to do frequently like initializing a variable using a loop like this. It turns out there are better solutions to this problem. You do not need to reinvent this wheel yourself because it turns out in addition to standard io.h H and CS50.h and as you probably saw in problem set one, math.h uh and perhaps others. There are other libraries out there, namely the string library itself. In fact, if you go into the CS50 manual, you can look up the documentation for a header file called string.h, which contains declarations for that is prototypes for a whole bunch of helpful functions. In fact, the manual pages for it are at this URL here. The most important function and the one we're going to use so often for the next few weeks is wonderfully called stir lang for string length. Someone else literally decades ago wrote the code that essentially looks quite like this but packaged it up in a function that you and I can use. So we don't have to jump through these stupid hoops just to count the length of a string. We can just ask the string length function what the length of a string is. But odds are if we looked at the C code that someone wrote decades ago, it would look indeed quite like this. So how can I simplify this program? Well, I can get rid of all of this code here. I can include string.h at the top of my file. And then I quite simply could do something like this. int length equals sterling of name. That's going to put in the variable length. Actually, let's be consistent. int n equals stir length of name. And then on line nine, let's print it out. Let's try this. Make length dot slashlength David. Okay, Kelly. Okay, and no one. And zero. It seems to now be working. So this is a wheel we do not need to in reinvent. And frankly, now in a matter of design, I don't really need the variable n anymore. Recall that we can nest our functions just like we did with average before. So let me get rid of that line and just say sterling of name is actually perfectly reasonable here. All right. Well, what more can we do with this? Well, let's consider some other matters of design. Let me close out length C and let's create another program of our own called string. C in which we'll play around now with this library and others. Let me go ahead and include cs50.h. Let me go ahead and include standard io.h. Let me go ahead and include also string.h. All right, what do I want to now do? Well, in main void and inside of main, let's go ahead and write a program that prints a string character by character just to demonstrate these mechanics. So, string s equals get string and I'm going to ask the user for some input because I just want to play around with any old string. I'm going to go ahead and proactively say output here and I'm going to go ahead and uh not use a new line character there deliberately below this. Now I'm going to have a for loop, though I could use a while loop that says int i equals z, i is less than sterling lang of s, the string I just got from the human, and increment i on each iteration. And on each iteration, print out just one character in that string, specifically at s location i. And then at the very bottom of this program, let's just print a single backslash n to move the character onto a new line. Long story short, what have I done? I wrote a stupid little program that prompts the user for a string, prints the word output thereafter, and then it just prints the word that they typed in character by character by character by character until it reaches the end of the string based on the length returned by Sterling. So, let's go ahead and run this in my terminal window. I'm going to do make string dot sling and I'll type in my own name of before. This was a subtlety. I deliberately wrote two spaces here because I just um to be nitpicky, I wanted input and output to line up perfectly. So you can see what's happening. Indeed, if I do enter here, now I see input is David. The output is David as well. So that was just a formatting trick that I foresaw. Why is this program correct but not arguably well-designed? It's pretty good in that it's using the Sterling function. I didn't reinvent the wheel unnecessarily, but there's an inefficiency that's kind of subtle. And it relates to how a for loop works. Any thoughts? This program I claim is doing unnecessary work somewhere. &gt;&gt; Why do you have to character? &gt;&gt; Okay, that's definitely stupid. Um, you don't have to output a character by character. That's just my pedagogical decision here. So, correct, but not the question we're fishing for. There's a second stupid thing. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yes. Every time through this loop, and this isn't so much my conscious choice, but my mistake. I'm checking the length of S again and again. Why? Because recall how a for loop works. The initialization happens once at the very beginning. Then you check the boolean expression. Then if it's true, you do the code. Then you do the update. Then you check the boolean expression. Then you do the code. update boolean expression you do the code but every time you evaluate this boolean expression you're asking does ah is i less than the ster length of s but this is a function call like you are literally using sterling again and again and again and like a crazy person you're asking the computer what's the length of s what's the length of s what's the length of s it's not going to change it's going to be the same no matter what so how can we fix this well I could solve this in a couple of ways like I could for instance down here do int n equals stir lang of s and store it in a variable n and just do that. I think that eliminates the inefficiency because now I calculate the length of s once. It's not going to change nor is my variable. So I can now use and reuse that variable. It's just saving me a little bit of time, you know, microsconds maybe. But when you're writing bigger programs and you're doing things in loops, if that loop is running not three times or five, but a million times, uh, millions of times, all of those microsconds, milliseconds might very well add up. But it turns out there's some syntactic tricks we can do too. I alluded to this earlier. If you want to initialize not one variable but two, you can actually do it all before the first semicolon like that. So now on line 9, I'm declaring a variable called i and setting equal to zero. And I'm declaring a second variable called n, also the same type, int, and setting it equal to the length of s. And now I can use that again and again. Now, as an aside, this is a little bit of a white lie because smart compilers nowadays are so advanced that they will notice that you're calling Sterling again and again inside of a loop and they will just fix this for you unbeknownst to you. But it's representative of a class of problems that you should be able to spot with your own human eyes and avoid altogether so that you don't waste more time and more compute and more money in some sense than you might otherwise need to in this case. Any questions on that there? Optimization. Yeah, &gt;&gt; you do not say int. Again, the constraint is that you have to use the same data type for all of your initialization. So, you better hope that you only want ins otherwise you got to pull it out and do what I did earlier. Good question. Others on this? &gt;&gt; When does it spaces? &gt;&gt; When does it account for spaces? A space is just uh character asky character number 32. So there's nothing special about it. It's sort of invisible but it is there. It is treated like any other character. There's no special accounting whatsoever. The null character which is also invisible is special because print f and sterling know to look for the end of that variable the end of that value as such. All right, let's try one other demonstration of some of these ideas here. Let me go into uh a another file that we'll create called how about uppercase C. Let's write a super simple program that like uppercases a string that the human types in and see how we can do this sort of good, better, and best. So I'm going to call this file uppercase C. Inside of this file, let's use our now friends include CS50.h. Let's do include standard io.h. Let's then include lastly, how about uh And the goal here inside of main is going to be to get a string from the user. So string s equals get string. And we're going to ask the user for a before string representing what it is they typed before we uppercase everything. Then I'm going to go ahead after that and print out just as a placeholder after and two spaces just to be nitpicky so that the text lines up vertically on the screen. Now I'm going to do the following for int i= z n equals sterling lang of s semicolon i less than n just like before i ++. So I'm just kicking off a loop that's going to iterate over the string the human typed in. Now if my goal in life is to change the user's input from lowercase if indeed in lower case to uppercase let's just express that literally. If the current character in the string, so s bracket i is greater than or equal to quote unquote a and s bracket i is less than or equal to quote unquote z using single quotes. This is arguably a very clever way of expressing the question is it lowercase. We know from our ASKI chart from week zero that uh the ASKI chart has uh not only numbers representing all the uppercase letters but also numbers representing all the lowercase letters. Lowerase A for instance is 97 and they are all contiguous thereafter. So we can actually treat just like we did before chars as ins and ins as chars and sort of ask mathematical questions about these chars and say is s bracket i between a and z inclusive. So if it is lowercase and I'll add a comment here for clarity. If S bracket I is lowercase what do we want to do? We want to force it to uppercase. So this is a little trick I can do as follows. Print f the current character. But let's do some math on it. Let's change s bracket i by subtracting some value. Well might that value be? Well recall from week zero our asky chart here. And let's focus for instance on the lowercase letters here and the uppercase letters here. What's the distance between all upper and lowercase letters? It's 32, right? And the lowercase letters are bigger. So, it stands to reason if I just subtract 32 from the lowercase letter, it's going to immediately get me to the uppercase version thereof. So, this is kind of cool. So, I can actually go back to VS Code and I can literally subtract the number 32 in this case because ASKI is a standard. It's not going to change. else. If the letter is not lowercase, I'm just going to go ahead and print it out unchanged without doing any mathematics at all to it. And I'll make clear with a comment. Uh, else if not lowercase makes clear what's going on there. All right, let me go ahead and make uppercase in my terminal window. Dot sluppercase. Let's type in my name all lowercase. And I get back David. H, minor bug. Couple bugs actually. Let me fix my spacing. I think I want another space after the word after. And at the very bottom of my program, I think I want a back slashn. Now, let's rerun uh make unuppercase dot /upercase enter dab. And now it's forcing it all to uppercase. Meanwhile, if I do it once more and type in name capitalized, it's still going to force everything else to uppercase. Questions? &gt;&gt; You're spacing for the after. &gt;&gt; Oh, I'm an idiot. Okay, thank you. Yes. Uh I misspelled after otherwise my lining my alignment would have worked. So let's do this again. Make uppercase if only so that we can prove it's the same dab and all lowercase. And there we go. That was thank you the intent. All right. So it's kind of a little trick but this is kind of tedious, right? Like Microsoft Word, Google Docs all have the ability to toggle case from uppercase to lowerase or lowerase to uppercase. It's kind of annoying that you have to write this much code to achieve something so simple seemingly and so commonplace. Well, it turns out there's a better approach here, too. In addition to there being the string library, there's also the cype library in cype.h, another header file, there's a whole bunch of other functions that are useful that relate to characters uh characters uh in ASI. So, for instance, if we go ahead and use this as follows, I'm going to go ahead at the top of my file here and include now cype.h. It turns out there's going to be functions via which I can actually ask these questions myself. For instance, in this next version of the program, I don't need to do any of this clever but pretty verbose math. I can just say if the is lower function which comes from the cype library passing in s bracket i returns true, we'll then convert the letter to lower uppercase by subtracting 32. But you know I don't even need to do this mental math or math in code. I can also from the cype library use a function called to upper which takes as input a character like s bracket i and let someone else's function do the work for me. So let me go back down to my terminal window here. Let me make uppercase now dot /upercase enter before dab ID. This now works too. But if I really dig into the documentation for the cype library, you'll see that you can just use the is lower function on any character and it will very intelligently only uppercase it if it is actually lowercase. So someone else years ago wrote the conditional code that checks if it's between little A and little Z. So knowing this, and you would see that indeed in the documentation, I don't even need this else. I can instead just get rid of this whole conditional, tighten my code up significantly here and simply say print f using percent c the two upper version of that same letter and let the function itself realize if it's uppercase pass it through unchanged if it's lowercase change it first and then return it. So now if I open my terminal window again and clear it make uppercase dot slashupcase enter dav ID and we're back in business. So again, demonstrative of how if you find that coding is becoming tedious or you're solving a problem that like surely someone else has solved, odds are there is in fact a library function for whether it's from CS50 or from the standard library that you yourselves can use. Um and unlike the CS50 library, which is indeed CS50 specific, which is why Clang needed to know about -L CS50, many of these libraries just automatically work. You don't need to link in the cype library. you don't need to link in other libraries. Um, but non-standard libraries like CS50's training wheels for the first few weeks, we do need to do that. But make is configured to do all of that automatically for you. All right, in our final minutes together, let's go ahead now and reveal some of the details we've been rubbing um uh sweeping under the rug about Maine. I asked on week one that you just sort of take on faith that you got to do the void, you got to do the int, you got to do the void and all of that. Well, let's see why that actually is. So, main is special in so far as in C. It is the function that will be called automatically after you've compiled and then run your code just because not all languages standardize the name of the function, but C and C++ and Java and certain other ones do. In this case, here is the most canonical simple form of main. We know that including standard io.h H just gives us access to the prototypes for functions like print f. But what's going on with int and what's going on with void? Well, void in parenthesis here just means that main and in turn all of the programs we've written up until this moment do not take command line arguments. Literally every program we've written / a.outhello/scores dot sl everything else. I have never once typed another word after the name of our programs that we've written in class. That is because every program has void inside of these parenthesis telling the computer this program does not take command line arguments, words after the program's name. That is different from make and code and cd and other commands that you've typed with words after them their names at the prompt. But it turns out the other supported syntax for the main function in C can look like this too, which at a glance looks like kind of a mouthful, but it just means that main can take zero arguments or it can take two. If it takes two, the first is an integer and the second is an array of strings. By convention, those inputs are called arg and arg. arg is the count of arguments that are typed after the pro uh after the program's name. Arg is the argument vector aka array of actual words. In other words, now that we have the ability to use arrays, we can get zero or one or two or three or more words from users at the prompt when they run our own programs. So what do I mean by this? We can now write programs that actually have command line arguments as follows. Let me go into VS Code here and close our old program uppercase. Let's write a new simpler program here in my terminal called greet C and just greet the user in a couple of different ways. So I'm going to include initially CS50.h and then I'm going to include standard io.h here. Then I'm going to say int main void without introducing anything new just yet. I'm going to ask the user like we did last week for a return value from get string asking them what's your name as we've done so many times. Then I'm going to say print f hello percent s back slashn spitting out their answer as follows. Same program as last week again I'm going to make greet. I'm going to say /greet and I'm prompted now for my name. I hit enter. Notice that I did not take any command line arguments. The only command I ran was dot / greet no other words. Let's now use this new trick and actually let the user type their name when they're running my program rather than waste their time by using getstring and prompting them. Let me go into my editor here. Let's get rid of the CS50 library. Let's get rid of my use of get string and let's simply change void to int arg c then string argv open bracket close bracket. That's all down here. Let's simply print out argv bracket 1 for reasons we'll soon see. The only change then I'm making really is changing the prototype for main from the first version which we've been using for like a week and a bit now to the second version which is the only other version supported. I'm going to go back to my terminal window now. Make greet and darn it. I shouldn't so close. Why did I make uh how do I fix the mistake I accidentally made? Yeah, in back. Oh, no. In front. &gt;&gt; Yes, I should have kept the CS50 library because it's in the CS50 library that string is defined. So, include CS50.h. In week four, we will delete that line for real and actually show you what string actually is. I promised at the start of class that string is a term of art, but it's not a keyword in C, but it we'll see what it means in a couple of weeks time. Okay, let me fix this. make greet dot slashgreet but now I'm gonna type before I even hit enter my actual name and when I hit enter now I see hello David if I instead dot /g greet kelly enter now I see hello Kelly if I do nothing like greet enter I just see hello null which is not the same null as before n this is n u lll for reasons we'll come back to before long but clearly print f knows something's going on there's no actual word there. Why though did I do arg bracket one? Well, it turns out that just as a feature of C, if I recompile this program and do dot /greet and type in nothing else, I'm going to see something kind of curious. Hello. Because automatically the zero location in the arg variable will automatically contain the program's own name. Why is this useful? If you ever want to do something self-referential like thanks for running my program or you want to show documentation for your program and the name of your program that it depends on whatever the file itself is called, you can use argv bracket zero which will always contain the program's name no matter what the file has been named or renamed to. But we can fix that null issue now in a couple of ways. So arg c is the other input that I said now can exist which is the count of arguments at the prompt. So if I want to check if the user actually typed their name, I could say something like if arg c equals equals 2. Well then and only then go ahead and print out their name. Else let's just do some clever default like print f quote unquote hello world or heck nothing at all. This version of the program now is a little smarter because when I run make greet and dot /gre of my name works exactly as intended. But if I forget and only dot slashgreet it's going to say hello world. Moreover, if I don't quite cooperate and I say David Men enter, it similarly just ignores me because arg count is not two anymore. It's now three. So, arg contains the total numbers of words at the prompt, but the first one is always the program's name. Question. &gt;&gt; Sorry. Can you say that once a little louder? Why is it information that we just have or &gt;&gt; Oh, so the short answer is just because like the definition of C, if you look up the documentation for C, you can either define main as taking no arguments with the word void Or you can specify that main can take two arguments and the compiler and the operating system will just ensure that if you provide two those two variables arg will be filled with those two val values automatically. Someone else decided that though that's just the way it works. You can't come up you can't put three there. You can't put four there. You can change the names of those variables but not the types because of this convention. So there's one last feature of main then it's the actual value it returns. Up until now every program I've written starts with int main something. Int main something. What is that int? We have yet to use it. Technically the value that main returns is going to be called a so-called exit status which is a numeric status that indicates success or failure. Numbers are everywhere in the world of computing. So for instance here's a screenshot from Zoom whereby if something goes wrong with Zoom like you have bad internet connectivity or something like that you might see an error code like 1132. That means nothing to normal people unless you Google it, look up the documentation, but it means something very much to the software engineers who wrote this code because they know, oh shoot, 1132 means this error and they probably have a spreadsheet or a cheat sheet somewhere that converts those codes to actually useful error messages. And frankly, in a better world, they would just tell you what the problem is rather than just say report the problem and mention this number. That said, on the web, odds are you're familiar with this number 404, which is also a weird thing for so many normal people to know, but this generally means file not found. It's a numeric code that signifies that something has gone wrong. Exit status isn't quite this, but it's similar in spirit. In Maine, you can return a value like zero or one or two or something else to indicate whether something was successful or not. By convention, a program, a function like Maine returns zero on success if all is well. And that leaves you then with like several hundred possible things that can go wrong because you could return one to signify one thing, two to return another, three to signify another, and so long as you have a spreadsheet or a cheat sheet or something, you can just keep track as the programmer as to what error means what. So what does this mean in real terms? Well, if I go over to VS Code here, let me implement a relatively simple program, our last called status.c. So in status C, I'm going to go ahead and use the CS50 library at the top, the standard IO library at the top, and then inside of int main and with our new uh format int arg c string arg v square brackets inside of main, I'm going to now do the following. If arg c does not equal to, then I'm going to go ahead and print out this time a warning. I'm not going to have some silly default like hello world. Let's tell the user that they didn't use my program correct. And I'm going to say print f missing command linear argument. And we'll assume they know what that means. Then to signify an error, I'm going to say return one. It could be two, it could be three, but this is the first possible error. So I'm going to start simple with one. Otherwise, if arg does equal to and I get to this part of my code, I'm going to say hello, percent s back slashn and pass in argv bracket 1 just like before. And just to be super specific, I'm going to return zero to tell the computer, the operating system, that this is success. Zero signifies success. Any other value signifies error. Let's make status now. Let's do dot /st status. And this is a little magical, but let me go ahead and cooperate initially. I'm going to type in my name David. And I'm going to see hello, David. Uh most people wouldn't know this but among the commands you can type at your terminal are this one here and the TFS and II the TAS and II would do something like this. We after running your code can do echo space dollar sign question mark and we can see secretly the return value that your program returned zero in this case. Meanwhile if we do this again dot slatus uh dot slash uh status and let me not type my name this time. When I do this, I see missing command line argument. What value should the code have returned? Then one. So let's see echo dollar sign question mark. There's the one. So even after just one week of CS50, if you've ever wondered how check 50 knows if your code was correct or not, among the ways we check for that is by checking this semi-secret status code, this exit status, which isn't really a secret. It's just not displayed to normal people because it's not all that enlightening unless you're the software developer who wrote the code in question. But this means we could return one in some cases or two in other cases or three or four in yet others. And these command line arguments are sort of everywhere. And in fact, a program I skipped over a moment ago was going to be this. There's no uh academic value to what you're about to see. But uh another program that takes command line arguments is known as cows. And this is sort of very famous in computing circles because it's been on systems for many years. Cowsay is a program that allows you to type in a word after the prompt like moo and it will print out what's called asky art. An adorable little cow with a speech bubble that says moo. So kind of evocative of like scratch, but it takes other command line arguments, not just the words that you want to come out of its mouth, but even the appearance that you want it to have. So for instance, I can say -f duck and run it again. Enter. And now I have a little cute duck saying moo, which is a bit of a bug. So let me change that to quack for instance instead. And again no academic value here. It's just fun to now play with the various options. But if we really want to have fun with this, we can do another one. So cow say-f dragon. And we can say something like raar. And now we have this crazy dragon appearing on the screen. Which is to say again no value here. It's just fun to play with command line arguments sometimes. And how is cows doing this? Well, someone wrote code maybe in C or some other language using arg c and argv and poking around at their values and maybe a conditional that says if the -f value is dragon then print this graphic else if the value is duck then print this other one. It all boils down to the same fundamentals of week zero of functions and conditionals and loops and boolean expressions and the like. It's just being composed into more and more interesting things. And indeed in closing among the other interesting things we'll play with this week to come full circle is that of cryptography. the art of scrambling information so as to have secure communication. So important nowadays with passwords and credit card numbers and personal messages that you might want to send and we'll have you explore through code some of the algorithms via which you yourselves can encrypt information. And there's a number of ways we can do this form of encryption and they all boil down to this mental model. You've got some input like the message you want to send and you want to incipher it somehow, encrypt it somehow so that no one knows what message you've sent. So you want your plain text, which is the human readable version in English or any other language to become cipher text ultimately. So the code you'll be writing this week is inside of this black box some kind of cipher, an algorithm that encrypts information so that you can do exactly this. Now the catch is that you can't just give it plain text and run it through an algorithm and get cipher text because you need to somehow have a secret typically for encryption to work. Like if I'm going to send a message to someone in back, well, I could just randomize the letters that I'm writing down. But how would they know how to reverse that process? Probably what we need to do is agree in advance that you know what, I'm going to change every A to a B and every B to a C and a C to a D and a Z to an A. I'll wrap back around at the end of the uh the alphabet. It's not very sophisticated, but who know middle school teacher if they intercept two kids passing notes in class are going to waste time trying to figure out this cipher. But it does presuppose that there's a secret between them, the number one in that case, because I'm changing every letter by one place. So how might this work? Well, if I want to encrypt the word hi, hi exclamation point and my secret key with someone that I've come up with in advance is one. I should send the cipher text i j exclamation point. Now, this is a simple cipher, so I'm not really encrypting the punctuation, which may or may not be a good thing, but I am encrypting at least the alphabetical letters. But what does the recipient then have to do to decrypt this message? When they see on paper I J exclamation point, how do they know what I said? Well, they use that same key but subtract. So B becomes A, C becomes B, A becomes Z and so forth. Essentially inverting the key from positive one to negative 1. Of course, slightly more secure than uh a cipher of one, a key of one would be 13. And in fact, in computing circles, 13 has special significance. ROT 13, RO T13 is an algorithm that's been used for many years online just to sort of avoid spoilers. Like Reddit might do this or other websites where they want you to have to do some effort to see what the message says. But it's not all that hard. You just have to click a button or write the code that actually does this. But if you use 13 instead, you wouldn't get uh J uh you wouldn't get I J. You'd get UV because U and V are 13 places away from H and I respectively. But again, we're not touching the punctuation. Or we could send something more personal like I love you and the message comes out like that. Slightly more secure than that would be rot 26. No. &gt;&gt; No. Why? Because it's the same thing. It literally rotates all the way around. A becomes a, b becomes b. So there's a limit to this. But more seriously, that speaks to just how strong this encryption is or is not. Because if you think about this now from an adversar's perspective, like the teacher in the room intercepting the slip of paper, how much work do they need to do? Well, they just try all possibilities. Key of one, key of two, key of three, dot dot dot, key of 25. And at some point, they will see clearly that they guessed the key, which means that cipher is not very secure. Nonetheless, what we're talking about is historically known as the Caesar cipher because back in the day, when Caesar was communicating by uh by uh by legend uh with his generals, if you're the first human on Earth to come up with encryption or come up with this specific cipher, it doesn't really matter how not complex it is if no one else knows what's going on. Nowadays, it's not hard at all to write some C code or any other language that could just brute force their way through this. So there are much more sophisticated algorithms nowadays than simple rotations of letters of the alphabet as we'll soon see. But when it comes to decryption, it really is just a matter of reversing that process. So this message here, if we rotate all the letters in the opposite direction by subtracting one, will be our final flourish for today. There's a bit of a hint there which will reveal that this message and our final words for us as the clock strikes 4:15 is going to be the U becomes T and the I becomes H. Um, this I'm the only one. This is amusing. H I S W A S C50. And this was CS50. We'll see you next time. Ow. Black. B. W. All right, this is CS50. This is week three. And this was an artist rendition of what various sorting algorithms look and sound like. Recall from week zero that an algorithm is just step-by-step instructions for solving some problem to sort information as in the real world just means to order it from like smallest to largest or alphabetically or some other heristic. And it's among the algorithms that we're going to focus on today in addition to searching which of course is looking for information as we did in week zero too. Among the goals for today are to give you a sense of certain computer science building blocks. Like there's a lot of canonical algorithms out there that most anyone uh who studied computer science would know, who anyone who leads a tech interview would ask. But more importantly, the goal is to give you different mental models for and methodologies for actually solving problems by giving you a sense of how these uh real world algorithms can be translated to actual computers that you and I can control. We thought we'd begin today uh with an actual algorithm for sort of taking attendance. We of course do this with scanners outside, but we can do it old school whereby I just use my hand or my mind and start doing 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 and so forth. That's going to take quite a few steps cuz I've got to point at and recite a number for everyone in the room. So I could kind of do what my like grade school teachers taught me, which is count by twos, which would seem to be faster. So like 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20. And clearly that sounds and is actually faster. But I think with a little more intuition and a little more thought back to week zero, I dare say we could actually do much better than that. So, if you won't mind, I'd like you to humor us by all standing up in place and think of the number one if you could and join us in this here algorithm. So, stand up in place and think of the number one. So, at this point in the story, everyone should be thinking of the number one. Step two of this algorithm for you is going to be this. Pair off with someone standing. Add their number to yours and remember the sum. Go. Okay. At this point in the story, everyone except maybe one lone person if we've got an odd number of people in the room is thinking of what number? &gt;&gt; Two. Okay. So next step, one of you in each pair should sit down. Okay, good. Never seen some people sit down so fast. So those of you who are still standing, the algorithm still going. So the next step for those of you still standing is this. If still standing, go back to step two. Air go repeat or loop if you could. And notice if you've gone back to step two, that leads you to step three. That leads some of you to step four, which leads you back to step two. So this is a loop. Keep going. If still standing, pair off with someone else still standing. Add together and then one of you sit down. So with each passing second, more and more people should be sitting down and fewer and few are standing. Okay, almost everyone is sitting down. You're getting farther and farther away from each other. That's okay. I can help with some of the math at the end here. All right, I see a few of you still standing, so I'll help out and I'll I'll join you together. So, I see you in the middle here. What's your number? &gt;&gt; 32. &gt;&gt; 32. Okay, go ahead and sit down and I'll pair you off with What's your number? &gt;&gt; 20. Okay, you can go ahead and sit down. Uh, who's still You're still standing? &gt;&gt; 27. &gt;&gt; 27. Okay, you can sit down. &gt;&gt; You guys are still adding together. Who's going to stay standing? Okay. What's your number? &gt;&gt; The worst part is doing like arithmetic across a crowded room, but &gt;&gt; 27. Also &gt;&gt; 47. &gt;&gt; 47. Okay, you can sit down. Is anyone still standing? Yeah, &gt;&gt; 15. &gt;&gt; Nice. 15. Okay, you can sit down. Anyone still standing? Okay, so all I've done is sort of automate the process of pairing people up at the end here. When I hit enter, we should hopefully see Oh, the numbers are a little What's going on there? There we go. When I hit enter, we'll add together all of the numbers that were left. And if you think about the algorithm that we just executed, each of you started with the number one, and then half of you handed off your number. Then half of you handed off your number. So theoretically all of these ones with which we started should be aggregated into the final count which if this room weren't so big would just be in one person's mind and they would have declared what the total number of people in the room is. I'm going to speed that up by hitting enter on the keyboard. And if your execution of this algorithm is correct, there should be 141 people in the room. According to our old school human though, Kelly, who did this manually, one at a time, the total number of people in the room, according to Kelly, if you want to come on up and shout it into the microphone, is of course going to be &gt;&gt; I don't know, something around 160, I think. &gt;&gt; 160. So, not quite the same. Okay, but that's pretty good. Okay, round of applause for your your accuracy. Okay, so ideally counting one at a time would have been perfectly correct. So, we're only off by a little bit. Now, presumably that's just because of some bugs in execution of the algorithm. Maybe some mental math didn't quite go according to plan. But theoretically, your third and final algorithm wherein you all participated should have been much faster than my algorithm or Kelly's algorithm whether or not we were counting one at a time or two at a time. Why? Well, think back to week zero when we did the whole phone book example, which was especially fast in its final form because we were dividing and conquering, tearing half of the problem away, half of the problem away. And even though it's hard to see in a room like this, it stands to reason that when all of you were standing up, we took a big bite out of the first problem and half of you sat down, half of you sat down, half of you sat down, and theoretically there would have been, if you were closer in in uh space, one single person with the final count. So let's see if we can't analyze this just a little bit by considering what we did. So here's that same algorithm here. Recall is how we motivated week zero's demonstration of the phone book in either digital form as you might see in an iPhone or Android device looking for someone for instance like John Harvard who might be at the beginning middle or end of said phone book but we analyze that algorithm just as we can now this one. So in my very first verbalized algorithm 1 2 3 4 you could draw that as a straight line because the relationship between the number of people in the room and the amount of time it takes is linear. It's a straight line with each additional person in the room. It takes me one more step. So if you think to sort of high school math, there's sort of a slope of one there. And so this n number denoting number of people in the room is indeed a straight line. And on the x-axis, as in week zero, we have the size of the problem in people and the time to solve in steps or seconds or whatever your unit of measure is. If and when I started counting two at a time, 2 4 6 8 10 and so forth, that still is a straight line because I'm taking two bytes consistently out of the problem until maybe the very end where there's just one person left, but it's still a straight line, but it's strictly faster. No matter the size of the problem, if you sort of draw a line vertically, you'll see that you hit the yellow line well before you hit the red line because it's moving essentially twice as fast. But that third and final algorithm, even though in reality it felt like it took a while and I had to kind of bring us to the exciting conclusion by doing some of the math, that looked much more like our third and final phone book example. Because if you think about it from an opposite perspective, suppose there were twice as many people in the room. Well, it would have taken you all theoretically just one more step. Now, granted, one more loop and there might be some substeps in there, if you will, but it's really just fundamentally one more step. If the number of people in the room quadrupled, four times as many people, well, that's two more steps. Equivalently, the amount of time it takes to solve the attendance problem using that third infogal algorithm grows very slowly because it takes a huge number of more people in the room before you even begin to feel the impacts of that uh growth. And so today indeed, as we talk about not only the correctness of algorithms, we're going to talk about the design of algorithms as well. just as we have code because the smarter you are with your design the more efficient your algorithms ultimately are going to be and the slower their cost is going to grow and by cost I mean time like here maybe it's money maybe it's the amount of storage space that you need any limited resource is something that we can ultimately measure and we're not going to do it very precisely indeed we're going to use some broad strokes and some standard mechanisms for describing ultimately the running time the amount of time it takes for an algorithm or in turn code to actually run. So, how can we do this? Well, last week recall we set the stage uh for talking about something called arrays, which were the simplest of data structures inside of a computer where you just take the memory in your computer and you break it up into chunks and you can store a bunch of integers, a bunch of strings, whatever, back to back to back to back. And that's the key characteristic for an array. It is a chunk of memory wherein all of the values therein are back to back to back. So, right next to each other in memory. So we drew this fairly abstractly by drawing a grid like this and I said well maybe this is bte zero and this is bte 1 billion whatever the total number amount of memory is that you have. We zoomed in and looked at a little something like this a canvas of memory. We talked about what and where you can put things. But today let's just assume that we want 1 2 3 4 5 6 seven chunks of memory for the moment. And inside of them we might put something like these numbers here. Well, the interesting thing about computers is that even though if I were to ask you all, find the number 50 in this array. I mean, our minds quickly see where it is because we sort of have this bird's eye view of the whole screen and it's obvious where 50 is. But the catch with computers and with code that we write is that really these arrays, these chunks of memory are equivalent to a whole bunch of closed doors. And the computer can't just have this bird's eye view of everything. If the computer wants to see what value is at a certain location, it has to do the metaphorical equivalent of going to that location, opening the door and looking, then closing it and moving on to the next. That is to say, a computer can only look at or access one value at a time. Now, that's in the simplest form. You can build fancier computers that theoretically can do more than that, but all the code we write generally is going to assume that model. You can't just see everything at once. You have to go to each location in these here lockers, if you will. Starting today two when we talk about the locations in memory we're going to use our old uh zero indexing uh vernacular that is to say we start counting from zero instead of one. So this will be locker zero locker one locker two dot dot dot all the way up to locker six. So just ingrain in your mind that if you hear something like location six that's actually implying that there's at least seven total locations because we started counting at zero. So that's intentional. Um we don't have in the real world yellow lockers. So, we're going to make this metaphor red instead. We do have these lockers here. And suppose that within these seven lockers physically on stage. We've put a whole bunch of money, uh, monopoly money, if you will, but the goal initially here is going to be to search for some specific denomination of interest and use these physical lockers as a metaphor for what your computer's going to do and what your code ultimately is going to do. If we're searching for the solution to a problem like this, the input to the problem at hand is seven lockers, all of whose doors are metaphorically closed. The output of which we want to be a bull. True or false answer. Yes or no? That number is there or no it is not. So inside of this black box today is going to be the first of our algorithm step-by-step instructions for solving some problem where the problem here is to find among all of these dollar bills specifically the $50 bill. If we could get two volunteers to come on up who are ideally really good at monopoly. Okay. How about over here in front? And uh how about let me look a little farther in back. Okay. Over here there and back. Come on down. All right. As these uh volunteers kindly come down to the stage, we're going to ask them in turn to search for specifically the $50 bill that we've hidden in advance. And if uh my colleague Kelly could come on up too because we're going to do this twice. Once searching uh in one with one algorithm and a second time with another. Uh let me go ahead and say hello if you'd like to introduce yourselves to the group. &gt;&gt; Hey, I'm Jose Garcia. &gt;&gt; Hi, I'm Caitlyn Cow. &gt;&gt; All right, Jose and Caitlyn. Nice to meet you both. Come on over and let me go ahead and propose that Jose um the first algorithm that I'd like you to do is to find the number 50. And let's keep it simple. Just start from the left and work your way to the right. And with each time you open the door, stand over to the side so people can see what's inside and just hold the dollar amount up for the world to see. All right, the floor is yours. Find us the $50 bill. 20. &gt;&gt; Shut it. &gt;&gt; No, that's good. That's good acting, too. Thank you. No, you can shut it just like the computer. All right. No. Very clear. Thank you. Still no. $10 bill. Next locker. $5 bill. Not going well. Uh $100 bill, but not the one we want. This one. H $1 bill. Still no 50. Of course, you've been sort of set up to fail, but here, amazing. A round of applause. Jose found the $50 bill. All right. So, let me ask you, Jose, you found the $50 bill. Um, it clearly took you a long time. Just describe in your own words, what was your algorithm, even though I nudged you along. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So, my algorithm was basically walk up to the first door available, open it, check if the dollar bill was the dollar bill that I was looking for, and then put it back, and then go to the next one. &gt;&gt; Okay. So, it's very reasonable because if the $50 bill were there, Jose was absolutely going to find it eventually, if slowly. In the meantime, Kelly's going to kindly reshuffle the numbers behind these doors here. And even though Jose took a long time here, I mean, what if Jose like wouldn't have been smart to start from the other end instead, do you &gt;&gt; Um, not necessarily because we don't know if the 50 is going to be at that end. &gt;&gt; Exactly. So, he could have gotten lucky if he sort of flaunted my advice and didn't start on the left, but instead started on the right. Boom. he would have solved this in one step, but in general that's not really going to work out. Maybe half the time it will. You'll get lucky, half the time it won't. But that's not really a fundamental change in the algorithm whether you go left to right, right to left. To Jose's point, if you don't know anything priori about the numbers, the best you can probably do is just go through linearly left to right or right to left. So long as you're consistent. Now, could you have jumped around randomly? &gt;&gt; Uh, I guess I could have, but if again, if they weren't in any like specified order, I don't think it would have helped either. Yeah. So, in additionally, if he just jumped around to random order, they might get lucky and it might be in the very first one might have taken fewer steps ultimately, but presumably you're going to have to then keep track of like which locker doors have you opened. So, that's going to take some memory or space, not a big deal with seven lockers. But if it's 70 lockers, 700 lockers, even random probably isn't going to be the best job. So, let me go ahead and take the mic away and hand it over to Caitlyn. You can stay on the stage with us. Caitlyn, what I'd like you to do is approach this a little more intelligently by dividing and conquering the problem, but we're going to give you an advantage over Jose. Kelly has kindly sorted the numbers from smallest to largest from left to right. &gt;&gt; So, accordingly, what's your strategy going to be? &gt;&gt; Start in the middle. &gt;&gt; Okay, please. And go ahead as before and reveal to the audience what you found. Not the 50, the 20. But what do you know, Caitlyn? At this point, &gt;&gt; it'll be in on the left is left. Correct. So the 20 is going to be to the left. So where might you go next with this three locker problem? Let me propose that you maybe go to the middle of the three. &gt;&gt; There we go. The middle of the middle. Like that would have been good. But let's &gt;&gt; Oh no. &gt;&gt; Oh no. It's a 100 instead. You failed. But what do you now know? &gt;&gt; It's in the middle. &gt;&gt; That I should have just let you. But now we have a big round of applause for Kayn for having found the 50 as well. Okay. So, the one catch with this particular demo is that because they know presumably what monopoly money denominations are because we just did this exercise and we had the whole cheat sheet on the board, you probably had some intuition as to like where the 50 was going to be. even though I was trying to get you to play along. But in the general case, if you don't know what the numbers are and that they're the specific denominations, but you do know that they're going from smallest to largest, going to the middle, then the middle of the middle, then the middle of the middle again and again would have the effect of starting with a big problem and having it, having it, having it, just like the phone book as well. So, thanks to you both. We have these wonderful parting gifts that we found in Harvard Square. Uh, if you like Monopoly, you'll love the Cambridge edition filled with Harvard Square name spots. So, but thank you to you both and a round of applause for our volunteers here. &gt;&gt; All right. So, let's see if we can't formalize a little bit these two algorithms known as linear search in so far as Jose was searching essentially along a line left to right and binary search by implying two because we were having that problem in two again and again and again. So for instance with linear search from left to right or equivalently right to left we could document our pseudo code as follows. For each door from left to right if the 50 is behind the door well then we're done. Just return true. That's the boolean value which was the goal of this exercise to say yes here is the 50. Otherwise at the very bottom of this pseudo code we could just say return false. Because if you get all the way through the lockers and you have never once declared true by finding the 50, you might as well default at the very end to saying false. I did not find it. But notice here, just like in week zero when we talked about pseudo code for searching the phone book, my indentation of all things is actually very intentional. This version of this code would be wrong if I instead used our old friend if else and made this conditional decision. Why is this code now in red wrong in terms of correctness? Yeah, if it's not behind the first door, it'll return false. &gt;&gt; Exactly. Because if the number 50 is not behind the first door, the else is telling you right then and there, return false. But as we've seen in CC code, whenever you return a value, like that's it for the function. It is done doing its work. And so if you return false right away, not having looked at the other six lockers, you may very well get the answer wrong. So the first version of the code where there wasn't an else but rather this implicit line of code at the very or this explicit line of code at the very end that just says if you reach this line of code return false that addresses that problem and to be clear even though it's right after an indented return true when you return a value as in C that's it like execution stops at that point at least for the function or in this case the pseudo code in question. All right, so here's a more computer sciency way of describing the same algorithm. And even though it starts to look a little more arcane, the reality is when you start using variables and sort of standard notation, you can actually express yourself much more clearly and precisely, even though it might take a little bit of practice to get used to. Here is how a computer scientist would express that exact same idea. Instead of saying for each door from left to right, we might throw some numbers on the table. So for i a variable apparently from the value zero on up through the value n minus one is what this shorthand notation means if 50 is behind doors bracket i so to speak. So now I'm sort of treating the notion of doors as an array using our notation from last week. If 50 is behind doors bracket I return true. Otherwise if you get through the entirety of that array of doors you can still return false. Now notice here n minus one seems a little weird because aren't there n doors? Why do I want to go from 0 to n minus one instead of 0 to n? Yeah, &gt;&gt; because zero is the first block. &gt;&gt; Exactly. If you start counting at zero and you have n elements, the last one is going to be addressed as n minus one, not n because if it were n, then you actually have n + one elements, which is not what we're talking about. So again, just a standard notation and it's a little turser this way. it's a little more succinct and frankly it's a little more adaptable to code. And so what you're going to find is that as our problem sets and programming challenges that we assign sort of get a little more involved, it's often helpful to write out pseudo code like this using an amalgam of English and C and eventually Python code because then it's way easier after to just translate your pseudo code into actual code if you're operating at this level of detail. All right. So, in the second algorithm, uh, where Caitlyn kindly searched for 50 again, but Kelly gave her the advantage of sorting the numbers in advance. Now, she doesn't have to just resort to brute force, so to speak, trying all possible doors from left to right. She can be a little more intelligent about it and pick and choose the locker she opens. And so, with binary search, as we call that, we could implement the same pseudo code. We could implement pseudo code for it as follows. We might say if 50 is behind the middle door, then go ahead and return true. Else if it's not behind the middle door, but 50 is less than that number behind the middle door, we want to go and search the left half. So that didn't happen in Caitlyn's sense because we ended up going right. So that's just another branch here. Else 50 is greater than what was at the middle door. We want to search the right half. But there's going to be one other condition here that we should probably consider, which is what is it here? Is it to the left? Or is it to the right? But there's another a corner case that we'd better keep track of. What else could happen? &gt;&gt; If it's not in the array or really like we're out of doors, so we can implement this in a different way. I left myself some space at the top because I shouldn't do any of this if there are no doors to search for. So, I should have this sort of sanity check whereby if there's no doors left or no doors to begin with, let's just immediately return false. And why is that? Well, notice that when I say search left half and search right half, this is implicitly telling me just do this again. Just do this again, but with fewer and fewer doors. And this is a technique for solving problems and implementing algorithms that we're going to end today's discussion on because what seems very colloquial and very straightforward. Okay, search the left half, search the right half is actually a very powerful programming technique that's going to enable us to write more elegant code, sometimes less code to solve problems such as this. And more on that in just a little bit. But how can we now formalize this using some of our array notation? Well, it looks a little more complicated, but it isn't really. Instead of asking questions in English alone, I might say if 50 is behind doors bracket middle, this pseudo code presupposes that I did some math and figured out what the numeric address, the numeric index is of the middle element. And how can I do that? Well, if I've got seven doors and I divide by two, what's that? 7id two, three and a half. Three and a half makes no sense if I'm using integers to address this. So maybe we just round down. So three. So that would be locker number 0 1 2 3 which indeed if you look at the seven lockers is in fact the middle. So this is to say using some relatively simple arithmetic I can figure out what the address is the index is of the middle door if I know how many there are and I divide by two and round down. Meanwhile, if I don't find 50 behind the middle door, let's ask the question. If 50 is less than the value at the middle door, then let's search not the left half per se in the general sense. More specifically, search doors bracket zero through doors bracket middle minus one. Otherwise, if 50 is greater than the value at the middle door, go ahead and search doors bracket middle + one through doors bracket n minus one. Now let's consider these in turn. So searching the left half as we described this earlier seems to line up with this idea like s start searching from doors bracket zero the very first one. But why are we searching doors bracket middle minus one instead of doors bracket middle. Yeah &gt;&gt; middle. &gt;&gt; Yeah exactly. We already checked the middle door by asking this previous question. And so you're just wasting everyone's time if you divide the half and still consider that door as checkable again. And same thing here. We check middle plus one through the end of the lockers array because we already checked the middle one. So same reason even though it just kind of complicates the look of the math, but it's really just using variables and arithmetic to describe the locations of these same lockers. But let's consider now what we mean by running time. The amount of time it takes for an algorithm to run. and consider which and why one of these algorithms is better than the other. So in general when talking about running time we can actually use pictures like this. This is not going to be some like very low-level mathematical analysis where we count up lots of values. It's going to be broad strokes so that we can communicate to colleagues uh to other humans generally whether an algorithm is better than another and how you might compare the two. So here for instance is a pictorial analysis of two different algorithms. It's the phone book from week zero and then the attendance taking from today itself. And let's generally as we've done before sort of label these things. So the very first algorithm took n steps in the very worst case if I had to search the whole phone book or if I had to count everyone in the room. So the first algorithm took indeed n steps. The second algorithm took half as many plus one maybe but we'll keep it simple. So we'll call that n /2. And the third and final algorithm both in week zero with the phone book and today with attendance is technically log base 2 of n. And if you're a little rusty in your logarithms, that's fine. Just take on faith that log base 2 alludes to taking a problem of size n and dividing it in half and half and half as many times as you can until you're left with one person standing or one page in the phone book. That's how many times you can divide in half a problem of size n. Well, it turns out that we're getting a little more detailed than most computer scientists t care to get uh when describing the efficiency of algorithms. So in fact we're going to start to use some not common notation instead of worrying precisely mathematically about how many steps today's and the future's algorithms take. We're going to talk in broader strokes about how many steps they are on the order of and we're going to use what's called big O notation which literally is like a big O and then some parenthesis and you pronounce it big O of such and such. So the first algorithm seems to be in big O of N which means uh it's on the order of N steps give or take some. this algorithm here, you might be inclined to do something similar. Ah, it's on the order of n / two steps and ah, this one's on the order of log base 2 of n steps. But it turns out what we really care about with algorithms is how the time grows as the problem itself grows in size. So the bigger n gets, the more concerned we are over how efficient our algorithm is. if only because today's computers are so darn fast. Whether you're crunching a thousand numbers or 2,000 numbers, like it's going to take like a split second no matter what. But if you're crunching a thousand numbers versus a million numbers versus a billion numbers, like that's where things start to actually be noticeable by us humans and we really start to care about these values. So in general, when using big O notation like this, you ignore lower order terms or equivalently, you only worry about the dominant term in whatever mathematical expression is in question. So big O of N remains big O of N. Big O of N / two. Eh, it's the same thing really as like big O N. Like it's not really, but they're both linear in nature. One grows at this rate, one grows at this rate instead. But it's for all intents and purposes the same. They're both growing at a constant rate. This one too, ah, it's on the order of log of n where the base is who cares. In short, what does this really mean? Well, imagine in your mind's eye that we were about to zoom out on this graph such that instead of going from 0 to like a million, maybe now the x-axis is 0 to a billion. And same thing for the y-axis, 0 to a million. Let's zoom out. So, you're seeing 0 to a billion. Well, in your mind's eye, you might imagine that as you zoom out, essentially things just get more and more compressed visually because you're zooming out and out and out, but these things still look like straight lines. This thing still looks like curved lines, which is to say as n gets large, clearly this green algorithm, whatever it is, is more appealing it would seem, than either of these two algorithms. And if we keep zooming out, like at some point, the ink is going to be so close together that they all for are for all intents and purposes pretty much the same algorithm. So this is to say computer scientists don't care about lower order terms like divide by two or base 2 or anything like that. We look at the most dominant term that really matters as n gets bigger and bigger. So that then is bigo notation and it's something we'll start to use pretty much recurringly anytime we analyze or speak to how good or how bad some algorithm is. So here's a little cheat sheet of common running times. So for instance here's our friend big O of N which means uh the algorithm takes on the order of n steps. Uh here is one that takes on the order of login steps. Here are some others we haven't seen yet. Some algorithms take n times log n steps. Some algorithms take n squared steps and some algorithms just take one step maybe or maybe two steps or four steps or 10 but a constant number of steps. So let me ask of the algorithms we've looked at thus far for instance linear search being the very first today what is the running time of linear search in big O notation that is to say if there's n people uh if there's n lockers on the stage how many steps might it take us to find a number among those n lockers big O of yeah &gt;&gt; big O of N in fact is exactly where I would put linear search. Why? Well, if you're using linear search in the very worst case, for instance, the number you're looking for, as with Jose, might be all the way at the end. So, you might get lucky. It might not be at the very end, but generally, it's useful to use this bigo notation in the context of worst case scenarios because that really gives you a sense of how badly this algorithm could perform if you just get really unlucky with your data set. So e even though big O really just refers to an upper bound like how many steps might it take it's generally useful to think about it in the context of like the worst case scenario like ah the number I care about is actually way over here but what about binary search even in the worst case so long as the data is sorted how many steps might binary search take by contrast &gt;&gt; big O of log N so binary search we're going to put here which is to say that in general and especially as n gets large binary search is much faster it takes much less time. Why? Because assuming the numbers are sorted, you will be dividing in half and half and half just like with the phone book in week zero that problem and you will get to your solution much faster. Why should you not use binary search though on an unsorted array of lockers like a random set of numbers? Yeah, &gt;&gt; you could just get rid of the value because you don't know like what the inequality is going to be. &gt;&gt; Exactly. You're making these decisions based on inequalities, less than or greater than, but based on like no rhyme or reason. You're going left, going right, but there's no reason to believe that smaller numbers are this way and bigger numbers are that way. So, you're just making incorrect decision after incorrect decision. So, you're probably going to miss the number altogether. So, binary search on an unsorted array is just incorrect. Incorrect usage of the algorithm. But, like Kelly did, if you sort the data in advance or you're handed sorted data, well, then you can in fact apply binary search perfectly and much more efficiently. &gt;&gt; I have a question. Is there ever a case where linear search is more efficient just because the process of sorting the data yourself? &gt;&gt; Absolutely. Is linear search sometimes more efficient if it's going to take you more time to sort the data and then use binary search? Absolutely. And that's going to be one of the design decisions that underlies any implementation of an algorithm because if it's going to take you some crazy long time not to sort like seven numbers but 70 700 7,000 7 million but you only need to search the data once then what the heck are you doing? Like why are you wasting time sorting the data if you only care about getting an answer once? You might as well just use linear search or heck do it even randomly and hope you get lucky if you don't care about reproducing the same result. Now in general that's not how much of the world works. For instance, Google's working really hard to make faster and faster algorithms because we are not searching Google once and then never again doing it. we're doing it again and again and again. So they can amortize, so to speak, the cost of sorting data over lots and lots of searches. But sometimes it's going to be the opposite. And I think back to graduate school where I was often writing code to analyze large sets of data. And I could have done it the right way, sort of the CS50 way by fine-tuning my algorithm and thinking really hard about my code. But honestly, sometimes it was easier to just write really bad but correct code, go to sleep for seven hours, and then my computer would have the answer by morning. The downside, as admittedly happened more than once, is if you have a bug in your code and you go to sleep and then seven hours later you find out that there was a bug, you've just wasted the entire evening. So there too, a trade-off sometimes when making those resource decisions. But that's entirely what today is about, making informed decisions. And sometimes maybe it's smarter and wiser to make the more expensive decision, but not unknowingly, at least knowingly. All right, so there might we have our first two algorithms, but let's consider another way of describing the efficiency of an algorithm. Big O is an upper bound. Sort of how bad can it get in these uh cases where maybe the data is really uh not working to our advantage. Omega, a capital omega symbol here is used for lower bounds. So maybe how lucky might we get in the best case, if you will. How few steps might an algorithm take? Well, in this case here, here's just a cheat sheet of common runtimes, even though there's an infinite number of others, but we'll generally focus on uh um u functions like these. Let's consider those same algorithms. So with linear search from left to right, how few steps might that algorithm take? For instance, in like the best case scenario? Yeah. Is this hand about to go up? &gt;&gt; Yeah. So one step. Why? Because maybe Jose could have gotten lucky and opened this door and voila, that was the 50. It didn't play out that way, but it could have. In the general case, the number you're looking for could very well be at the beginning. So we're going to put linear search at omega of one. So one step and maybe it's technically a few more than that, but it's a fixed number of steps that has nothing to do with the number of lockers. Case in point, if I gave you not seven but 70 lockers, he could still get lucky and still take just one step. So omega is our lower bound. Big O is our upper bound. Ah, spoiler. What is binary search's lower bound? Well, apparently it's also omega of one. But why? That is in fact correct. Yeah, &gt;&gt; you could just get lucky again. &gt;&gt; Same reason you could get lucky in the best case and it's just smack dab in the middle of all of the data. So the fewest number of steps binary search might take is also actually one. So this is why we talk about upper bound and lower bound because you get kind of a r a sense of the range of performance. Sometimes it's going to be super fast which is great but something tells me in the general case we're not going to get lucky every time we use an algorithm. So it's probably going to be closer to those upper bounds the big O. Now, as an aside, there's a third and final uh symbol that we use in computer science to describe algorithms. That of a capital theta. Capital theta is jargon you can use when big O and omega happen to be the same. And we'll see that today. Not always, but here's a similar cheat sheet. None of the algorithms thus far can be described in this way with theta notation because they are not all the same with their big O and omega. They differed in both of our analyses. But we'll see at least one example of one where it's like okay we can describe this in theta and that's like saying twice as much information with your words to another computer scientist rather than giving them both the upper and the lower bounds. The fancy way of describing all of what we're talking about here big O omega and theta is asmmptoic notation. And asmtoic notation refer or asmtoic uh lee refers to a value getting bigger and bigger and bigger and bigger but not necessarily ever hitting some boundary as n gets very large in short is what we mean when we deploy this here asmtoic notation. All right. So, with the first of these things like linear search, let's actually kind of make this a bit more real. Let me actually go over to in just a moment uh my other screen here. Okay, in VS Code, let me go ahead and create a program called search.c. And in search C, let's go ahead and implement a fairly simple version of linear search initially. So, let me go ahead and include, for instance, cs50.h. Let me go ahead and include standard io.h. Then, let me go ahead and do in main void. So, we're not going to bother with any command line arguments for now. And then let me go ahead and just give myself an array of numbers to play with. And we did this briefly last week in answer to a question, but I'm going to do it now concretely rather than use something uh ma more manual to get all of these numbers into the array. I'm going to say give me an array called numbers. And the numbers I want to put in this array initially are going to be the exact same denominations we've been playing with. 20 500 10 5 100 1 and 50. Again, this is notation that I alluded to in answer to a question last week whereby if you want to statically initialize an array, that is give it all of your values up front without having the human type them all in manually, you can use curly braces like this. And the compiler is pretty smart. You don't have to bother telling the compiler how many numbers you want, 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 because it can obviously just count how many numbers are in the curly braces, but you could explicitly say seven there so long as your counting is in fact correct. So on line six, this gives me an array of seven numbers initialized to precisely that list of numbers from left to right. All right, let's ask the human now what number they want to search for just as I did our two volunteers and say int n equals get int. Then let's just ask the user for the number that they want to search for. Then let's implement linear search. And if I want to implement linear search in terms of the programming constructs we've seen thus far like what type what uh keyword in C should I use? What programming technique? Yeah. Yeah. So, maybe a for loop or a while loop, but for loop is kind of uh my go-to lately. So, let's do four int i equals zero because we'll start counting from the left. I is less than seven, which isn't great to hardcode, but I'm not going to use the seven again. So, I think it's okay in one place for this demo. then I ++ then inside of this array let's go ahead and ask a question just like Jose was by opening each of the doors by saying if numbers bracket I equals equals the number we asked about n well then let's go ahead and print out some informative message like found back slashn and then for good measure like last week let's return zero to signify success it's sort of equivalent to returning true but in main recall you have to return an int. That's why we revealed at the end of week two the return type of