need a team name from you all. You haven't had time to think about this. &gt;&gt; Team A. Okay. So, team A is who? &gt;&gt; Uh, I'm Leah. I'm a first year and I'm in wholeworthy. &gt;&gt; Welcome. Uh, &gt;&gt; my name is Stephen. I'm a freshman in candidate F. I'm Charlotte. I'm a freshman and I'm also in Canada F. &gt;&gt; All right, let's do introductions on the other team as well. You are going to be team &gt;&gt; Awesome Sauce. &gt;&gt; Awesome sauce. Okay. Versus team A. Uh, if you want to go ahead and introduce yourselves here. &gt;&gt; Hi, my name is Jenny Pan. I'm a freshman in Hollis. &gt;&gt; Hi, my name is Noah. I'm a freshman in Halbut. &gt;&gt; And hi, my name is Marie and I'm a freshman. Sorry, I'm a freshman in Canada. &gt;&gt; All right, welcome to both of our teams here. And among the goals now, let's leave one microphone with each team, uh, is to play a bit of charades whereby one of you in a moment is going to be responsible for acting out a word that you see on the screen. So, we're going to put on this screen and this screen over here some term that relates to CS50 somehow, and that person's goal over the course of 60 seconds is going to be to act that out in such a way that their teammates can hopefully guess what the word is. We'll give you 60 seconds at a time. Kelly has kindly offered to keep score. Um, and if you solve it in fewer than 60 seconds, we got another word for you and another word. And we'll see how many points you can acrewue over the course of those 60 seconds. And depending on how this goes, we'll do maybe one or two rounds in total. Questions. &gt;&gt; Skips do we get? &gt;&gt; How many skips do you get? I guess you can skip uh as many as you want until we run out of questions. &gt;&gt; Oh. Oh, &gt;&gt; but try not to run through all of our questions. All right. Any questions though beyond that? All right. So, if you guys want to step off stage over there, why don't we have team A begin? So, one of you, Leah, if you're holding the mic, if you want to be the charader, let's go ahead and have you stand here so you can see the screen. And we only ask that you two not look up because the answer is going to be right there. &gt;&gt; All right. And you should just shout out uh the word that Leah is acting out. Question. &gt;&gt; Acting only charades. &gt;&gt; Speaking. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah, I can't speak because that would kind of defeat the point. So, yes, just acting out. Just acting out physically. All right. &gt;&gt; I'm going to go over here. Give me just a moment to get the slides ready with your questions. And Leah, the first clue. Oh, and Kelly's going to be timing you. 60 seconds to acrew as many points as you can. All right, here we go. Go. Act that out. &gt;&gt; Oh, that was weird. Thank you. Sorry. Yes. Act out. This is CS50. All right. No. Act this out. Please go. &gt;&gt; Loop. calling a recursion. &gt;&gt; Yes. One point &gt;&gt; coming &gt;&gt; uh an array link list &gt;&gt; abstraction &gt;&gt; snake. &gt;&gt; Python. Python. &gt;&gt; Yes. Python &gt;&gt; duck. The duck. &gt;&gt; Binary. &gt;&gt; one zero &gt;&gt; binary digit bit &gt;&gt; bite &gt;&gt; one zero. It's definitely binary asy. &gt;&gt; Want to pass &gt;&gt; link list array. &gt;&gt; Yes. Array &gt;&gt; loop. &gt;&gt; Yes. Loop &gt;&gt; time. time. All right. Very nicely done. All right. Five is the score to beat. So, if you guys want to step over here, if uh one of you has the mic, go ahead and assume the same roles. Five is the score to beat. All right. Here we go. Final round. First word. And you guys just make sure you don't look up. Go. Head node &gt;&gt; algorithm &gt;&gt; input algorithm &gt;&gt; these are hard &gt;&gt; Sure. You have to act it out. Act it &gt;&gt; Oh, they go. Run time. Run time. What's that? &gt;&gt; Tree. &gt;&gt; Yes. Tree. &gt;&gt; Next one. &gt;&gt; Oh my god. &gt;&gt; Binary search. &gt;&gt; Binary boolean. No. A merge s call phone call &gt;&gt; function. &gt;&gt; It was binary search, wasn't it? &gt;&gt; What was binary &gt;&gt; phone? Oh, that's time. All right, but a round of applause for our team awesome sauce. &gt;&gt; Okay, we have some some parting prizes for you, your very own Super Mario Pezes for you guys as well. I'm glad we squared away that the ability to pass though on the question, so thank you for that. All right, so admittedly pretty hard. Our thanks to all of these volunteers for playing that out. Allow me to turn our attention back to here in just a moment where else uh we can go from here. So up until now up until now we've been using Visual Studio Code for CS50 at the URL CS50. Recall that this is just an adaptation of a commercial tool called GitHub code spaces which is like a cloud-based version of Visual Studio Code itself or VS code which is an largely open source tool for Microsoft that's incredibly popular in the industry which is to say even though we have the CS50 library in there and we turned off by default some of the menu options and we disabled AI. It is the tool that so many programmers around the world do use every day to write code. So you have been learning all this time sort of industry standards in that sense. It is now time if you so choose, but you are welcome to keep using this for your final project if feeling more comfortable with it. Uh to drop the 4CS50 and actually install on your own Mac or PC if you so choose Visual Studio Code itself. You can go to this URL here. Um it's fairly straightforward to install it. But invariably you'll run into probably some technical support headaches depending on the language that you're trying to use with it. For instance, if you're trying to use it with Python, you'll probably also have to download and install Python onto your computer at least if you want the latest version. And just know a priori that sometimes just stuff happens and it just doesn't work and you have to Google or ask chat GPT and that's fine and honestly that's kind of normal but this is also why we don't do any of this in week zero of the class so that we can focus on hello world and Mario and cash and credit and get into the interesting parts of computing and programming and not frust uh not frustrating you so with technical support challenges. But now given that all of you are somewhere in between or among those more comfortable uh you're now ready to sort of uh deal with those same technical challenge yourself. But who knows maybe it will go perfectly smoothly. Um you can go to CS50's own documentation because if you want to be able to use all of the same software that CS50 has pre-installed you can use a technology known as containerization with a tool called Docker and actually run a CS50 environment on your Mac or PC or even in the cloud but still run VS Code on your own Mac and PC. Among the upsides of which are that you're not dependent necessarily on the cloud. You can do everything offline. Uh which is useful in general. You can do things more quickly sometimes if you're using the full capabilities of your own computer and not just a browser. So this is generally how uh programmers approach their code using something like VS Code or alternative products. And in fact there's a bunch of others out there but perhaps the trendiest right now are these three here. Not just Visual uh Studio Code itself um but a tool called Cursor, another one called Windsurf. There's dozens of other text editors, often known as integrated development environments, which tend to have even more features that you can download for free or commercially on your own Macs, PCs, and the like. Uh, but you can't go wrong transitioning from CS50 to VS Code on your own Mac or PC, if only because you're already familiar with it. As for the command line, so those of you with Macs might have found somewhere in your utilities folder a program called Terminal. Um, if not, poke around there later today and you'll see that all this time you've had a command line interface available to you on Mac OS. Windows has something similar as well. They don't necessarily come with all of the same tools that we've been using within CS50.dev, but if you're a Mac user and you go to this URL here, or you're a Windows user and you go to this URL here, or if you're a Linux user, you probably know all of this already, so there's no URL for you there. Um you can install some of those same tools on your Mac and PC and feel all the more at home uh doing things in a command line as well. Um git this is something that we actually in CS50 abstract on top of. This is essentially the de facto standard nowadays for collaborating with other people using a central cloud server in order to share your code with it and in turn other people uh for versioning your code so that you keep track of multiple uh versions thereof and changes that you've made. um go to this URL here if you would like and you'll see a tutorial by CS50's own Brian U introducing you to actual Git because we've been sort of abstracting away this particular tool by just doing it all automatically for you. If you've ever gone through your timeline in CS50.dev being able to roll back to previous versions of your code, we're just using Git, but we're automatically running this command for you. If you want to collaborate with partners for your final project, you can use Git. However, I will encourage you to alternatively use Visual Studio Code's live share feature, which allows one of you to log into your code space, click some buttons, and then share access to your code space with your friend or your partner on whom with whom you're working on the project, and you can both in real time like Google Docs edit the code or different files therein uh using that one code space. A little easier than getting onboarded at least with Git. um hosting a website if this proves of interest for your final project or even after the course if it's a static website. Two popular places to go if only because they offer free tiers is what's called GitHub pages which you can use to just host HTML CSS and JavaScript with no Python, no Flask, no backend. Um or Netlefi is a popular company nowadays too that has an uh entry-level account that for which you can sign up for free. If you just want to have like a portfolio website, if you're an artist or a programmer, you just want to have static content that you write once and deploy, these are good starting points, but not all of them. Hosting a web app. So, this law, this list gets even longer. And all of these recommendations are essentially uh curated by the teaching staff. So, they're all opinionated, but these are perhaps the most common places you can go. Um, Amazon, Microsoft, Google, Cloudflare, they all have student type accounts. So, if you use your.edu email address, for instance, or some other form of proving your status as a current student, you can generally sign up for discounts and free access to a lot of these same services as well without having to pay while you're just learning along the way. GitHub has something similar called the student developer pack. And then a couple of other companies for hosting web apps that have been popular are Heroku, Verscell, and bunches of others. So by web app we mean not just HTML, CSS and JavaScript but maybe some Python maybe some JavaScript on the server maybe Ruby yet another language or any number of others when you actually need a backend in addition to the front end maybe you need a database as well this would be the place to start whether it's at the CS50 hackathon or beyond um and nowadays this is a slide that didn't even need to exist a couple of years ago asking AI again for your final projects you are welcome and encouraged to amplify your own productivity with AI not by having it do for you but moving away from the duck which by design has been fairly limited and meant to be a good teacher but not necessarily one that's going to be a good partner when it comes to building your final project. So chatbt claw gemini uh GitHub copilot openai codeex v 0ero um are all uh popular tools right now that you might want to play around with. The easiest of these to use perhaps if not familiar with say Chacha BT already would be GitHub copilot only because you can enable it within your CS50 code space by following our own documentation at cs50.thed the docs.io where we'll tell you the sequence of steps via which you can reenable AI now that you're allowed to for your final project and turn on all of those features that were disabled by default. Um and then there's still humans out there like it remains to be seen just how popular these websites are in the years to come for better or for worse. Um, but among the places that programmers and technopiles have gone for years are Reddit, Stack Overflow, Server Fault, where there's a rich history of questions and answers that ironically all of those AIs have been trained on, which unfortunately means some of these might be driven out of business eventually in some sense if we're all just turning only to AI. But when you actually want that human component, these are still good places to go. Um, and then news. Two of the many places you can go for news in technology, computing, computer science more broadly, would be TechCrunch is still a good one. hacker news so to speak and then you might have some of your own popular choices as well. Um and then if uh with some bias um take other classes like CS50 besides this undergraduate class has a rich history now over the past decade of creating all the more open courseware. So courses in more Python, more SQL, a language called R, cyber security, uh game development and more. All of those are linked at this URL here edex.org.css50 where you need not pay or sign up beyond auditing the course and all of the content is freely available. something for winter break, for instance, if you want to dive a little more deeply into some subject for the sake of your final project, your professional aspirations, or even just to prepare for spring term. And then over the coming weeks too, will CS50 itself be soliciting interest in applications for becoming a teaching fellow or TF, a course assistant or CA. If you would like to get all the more involved as a teacher of CS50 next fall, uh do uh follow the application link that we will soon circulate uh via email. Um, and do stay in touch too if you just enjoy answering other people's questions or seeing what the pulse of sort of computing is. At this URL here is a whole bunch of CS50's own communities uh in social media largely via which you can follow along at home in the months and years to come too. So, a few thanks before we do one final game al together. Um, to all of the people who have been making this course possible. Um, so our friends at Memorial Hall who make bring us into this beautiful space and make it possible for us to have of all things a class in such a space. um our friends at ESS who help with the audio each and every week in CS50. Um the restaurant Changa down the road, we hope you'll continue to visit our friends there. Wesley Chen is a good friend of ours and the manager um please tell him you're from CS50 and I'm sure he'll be delighted to see you. Um and then CS50's own team, most of whom were in back there or sitting next to you with cameras um without whom the course wouldn't be possible. And of course CS50's own teaching fellows and CAS, just a few of whom posed here for this photo. If I could invite you to all give everyone here a round of applause, my thanks to all of them. um, and then of course the CS50 duck should be thanked as well. Okay. Thanks. The CS50's own Rang Shinlu and some of our own former teaching fellows and students who have been behind the development of that their duck that you've gotten to know over these past several months. All right, if Kelly could join me again on screen, the only thing between us and cake is a final game, namely a quiz show in which all of you can partake. Here we go. Question one. What is the largest number an 8bit unsigned binary digit can represent? 256, 128, 255, or one? Starting strong, and keep in mind all of these questions came from you all because we asked you recently for review questions that are now on the screen. Again the timer is clicking and most popular answer was 255 which I think if we click once more we'll confirm was in fact the correct answer. So why is that and why is it not 256? Well if we start counting from zero as we always have that's consuming one of the 256 possibilities. So the largest number that we can represent with that's 8 bit and unsigned which means no negative numbers involved is indeed going to be 255. treasure that information now always. All right, next question from Kelly. Which issue is at the center of the year 2038 problem, which hopefully you added to your Google calendars a few weeks back. Integer overflow, malicious inputs, SQL injection attacks, or memory leak. Which of those is at the core of the year 2038 problem? All right, let's go ahead and reveal the number one answer with 92% of you saying integer overflow is in fact correct because we're still in the habit of using 32-bit integers to keep track of time from the so-called epoch which was January 1st, 1970. And unfortunately, we humans aren't great at sort of planning ahead. And so we're going to run out of permutations of 32bits by a certain date in the year 2038 unless everyone upgrades their computers to 64-bit counters which thankfully most every piece of modern hardware nowadays is using already. Your Macs, your PCs, and your phones. So hopefully this will be really a non-event, but hopefully you'll think of us in CS50 in uh you know 10 plus years when your Google calendar reminder goes off. Question three, which of the following is not a step of compiling? Linking, pre-processing, assembling, or interpreting? Bit more of a challenge. Which of these is not a step of compiling? All right, almost 200 responses coming in. All right, why don't we go ahead and reveal the most popular answer with 54% of you saying interpreting is in fact correct. Recall that we we talked about compiling. Compiling itself is just one of several steps. There is in fact the pre-processing step which takes care of any of the hash symbols in C that start with hash include hashdefine and the like. That's pre-processing. Uh there was then assembling or there was then compiling which actually compiled your code into assembly code. There was then the assembler which would actually take it down further to machine code and then linking 29. This is for 29% of you. The linking step, recall, was taking your zeros and ones and combining them with say CS50's libraries zeros and ones and maybe the standard IO libraries zeros and ones, linking them all together to give you one executable program like hello uh itself. All right, next question. What does a pointer store? The name of a variable, the memory addresses of a value, the size of a value, or the value of a variable? Think for a moment. What does a pointer store? All right, about 200 responses in and yes, the memory address of a variable with 96% of you confirming as much. That is correct. Question five. What is the running time of linear search? Big O of 1, big O of N, big O of N squared, or big O of N log N? linear search running time. And recall that with something like search, you could get lucky. But if big O is the upper bound on our running time, you might not. You might hit the end of the list that you're searching. And so the running time of linear search is of course big O of N. It might be omega of one, but not big O of one. At least if we're considering what the worst case scenarios might be. All right, on to question six. Which what data structure follows the first in first out principle? A Q, a link list, a stack, or a hash table? First in, first out, aka FIFO. Which of these is FIFO? All right. First in, first out is in fact a Q as you would hope if you're getting in line for a restaurant, for a store. You'd hope that if you're the first one in line, you're going to be the first one out equitably speaking. And so it is in fact a queue. The opposite of that in some sense then would have been a stack whereby when you think about the cafeteria trays, the sort of first one in is actually the last one out. So LIFO instead for a stack. All right, question seven. Which operator returns the memory address of a variable? An asterisk, a dollar sign, an amperand, or a hyphen and a greater than sign. presumably in C which returns the memory address of a variable. All right, let's see what everyone thinks. So the most popular and correct answer is the amperand. This is the address of operator. The asterisk recall in most context is the opposite of that. That's the dreference operator. It's actually go to an address. Um this is not a thing in C. Uh this though is similar in spirit to a combination of the star operator and the dot operator which means to dreference and follow a pointer to something inside of a strct typically. All right, question eight. Which SQL command is used to remove duplicate rows from a result set? Remove, unique, distinct, or clean? We didn't spend a huge amount of time on these keywords, but only one of them applies here. A result set is just the answers that you get back when doing your select. And if you want to filter out duplicates, you can in fact say distinct is correct. Unique is also a keyword in SQL, but that is when you want to define in your schema that a columns values are going to be unique, like an email address column instead. Distinct is how you filter out duplicates in your selects. All right, question nine. We're past the halfway mark. What does an HTTP code of 418 signify? Not found. I'm a teapot. Forbidden, unauthorized. 418. This too. If you know this one, moving forward, you'll be considered among the CS elite. answers are coming in a little slower, but I'm a teapot is correct, which is not actually a thing or useful technology. It was in fact an April Fool's joke years ago where a bunch of computer scientists got together in a room and wrote out an entire specification for what it means for a server to return 418. I'm a teapot. All right, number 10. Where does Malo dynamically allocate memory from? The heap, the stack, global variables, or assembly? heap is in fact correct. That's the sort of top part of the memory. Even though top and bottom make no actual technical sense. It's just our artist rendition thereof. The stack recall is what is used when functions are being called. Every time a function is called, it gets a so-called frame on the stack. That's where your local variables and your arguments get put. But if in C you use maloc, it does in fact end up on the heap. in C. If you allocate memory with Maloc but forget to call free, what problem can occur? A memory leak, segmentation fault, stack overflow, or all of the above if you allocate memory with Maloc but forget to call free. What problem can occur? All right, most popular answer is in fact memory leak, which is correct. Um, you could imagine scenarios in which you also get a segmentation fault andor a stack overflow, but those aren't direct consequences of not calling free. That's generally the consequence of using too much memory, for instance, or in this case doing something wrong with your memory. So interrelated, yes, but in terms of not calling free for each maloc, this is what's going to happen by definition. All right, well done there. Next question, which is 12. What does this domain name give the web page of? Safetychool.org. Is it Harvard University? Is it Princeton University? Is it Yale University? Or Colombia University? All right. Recall that this was in the context of our HTTP redirections. Yes. Interesting. Yes. In fact, uh Yale University, some alum has been paying like $10 a year for like 20 years for this joke. safetychool.org if you visit it returns an HTTP 301 uh HTTP header which says the location of it is in fact yale.edu. All right 13 three to go. What is the purpose of DNS? Uh to encrypt data sent over the dark web to find the nearest coffee shop for you to protect your location against hackers or to translate domain names into IP addresses. What is the purpose of DNS? If helpful, domain name system. All right, about at the 200 mark and the correct answer is indeed domain names into IP addresses. That is a server that is on your home network, on your ISP's network, on your campus's network, your corporate network. That just answers questions like that for you. All right, second to last question. Which of the following is not a built-in SQL feature to tackle race conditions? Begin transaction, commit, roll back, or enroll? We talked ever so briefly about this in the context of ending up with too much milk. Recall and the correct answer is indeed in roll. All three of those even though you didn't have to use them for problem set seven or nine um are indeed uh features of SQL. Uh but enroll is not a thing. All right. And the very last question. and try to answer this as quickly as you can. What does Professor Men say at the beginning of every CS50 lecture? Welcome to Harvard's computer science class. Hello everyone. Ready to code? All right, this is CS50 or let's get started with some programming. All of these questions were in fact written by you all. All right. And the correct answer, I'm pretty sure with 98% of you saying so, is all right, this is CS50. And all right, this was CS50. Cake is now served.