output, but does have a side effect of printing meow on the screen. Meanwhile, if I wanted to do something like this in code last week where I meowed three times, well, that's fine. We have the building blocks for this. And here's where inventing your own function starts to get more compelling. I can abstract away the notion of meowing now. Like, this doesn't come with C. It doesn't come with the CS50 library. I just created in the previous code this meow function. So, I can encode with a for loop and that new function meow three times. But I can abstract this away further. Recall that the refinement in Scratch last time was this. I could edit the new function and I can say it actually does take an input otherwise known as an argument called n. And I clarified that this means to meow some number of times. And then inside of those scratch blocks, I repeated n times the meowing act. Well, in C, I can achieve the exact same thing. Even though it's going to look a little more cryptic, but meow still returns nothing. It has a audible or visual side effect, but it doesn't return a value. But this version does take an input. And this might look a little weird, but just like before, when you create a variable in C, you specify the type and the name. When you invent your own function in C and it takes one or more inputs, aka arguments, you specify the type and the name of those as well. No semicolons up there, just inside of the parenthesis. And you'll get used to with practice this convention. But the rest of this code is exactly the same, except instead of three, I'm now using n. So again, I'm just composing the exact same ideas as last week, even though it looks way more cryptic this week, but it will come more and more familiar with more and more practice. So how can I go about implementing this myself? Well, let me propose that we do something like this. Let me go back to VS Code here and let me go ahead and let's really delete most of the code that I've written inside of Maine. And let me just suppose for the moment that meowing exists. And I'm going to go ahead and say for the first version for int i equals zero i less than three. So we're not going to take input yet. i ++. And then I'm going to go ahead here and say meow is what I want this function to do. Now if I scroll back up, you'll see there's no definition of meow yet. So I'm going to invent that too. I'm going to go up here and say void. Uh meow void. And again this first version means no input, no output, just a side effect. And that side effect super simply is going to be to say just quote unquote meow with a back slashn. And now if I go and open my terminal window, clear it from before, do make cat, so far so good. /cat, we're back in business, but I've abstracted the function away. Now, much like last week where I sort of dramatically dragged the meow definition way down to the bottom of the screen just to make the point that you don't need to see it anymore. Out of sight, out of mind. Let me sort of try to do the same here. Let me highlight and delete that and like go way way way down arbitrarily just to be dramatic and paste it near like the hundth line of code and scroll back up. Now out of sight, out of mind. I've already implemented the idea of meowing. We don't need to see or talk about it again. But there is a caveat in C. When I now clear my terminal and make this cat, now I've introduced a problem and there's like more problems it seems than code. Let me scroll back up to the first such error and you'll see this on line nine of cat.c See character 9, there's an error. Call to undeclared function meow and then something fairly arcane, but that means that meow is no longer recognized as an actual function. I know that it doesn't come from CS50.h, and I know it doesn't come from standard.io.h. It's just down there. But why is the compiler being kind of dumb here? Uh, yeah. function. &gt;&gt; Yeah, because in so far as the first version worked like logically it would seem that putting it at the bottom was just a bad idea because C compilers are fairly simplistic. Like they won't proactively do you the favor of like checking all the way down at the bottom of the file. They're going to take you literally. So if meow doesn't exist as of line 9, that's on you. Like that is an error. So I could fix this by just undoing what I did and move it way back up to the top. But let me argue that in general when writing C programs, the main function, which I keep using and we'll talk more about next week, is literally meant to be the main part of your code. And so it kind of stands to reason that it should be at the top because when you open the file, it'd be nice to see the main program that you care about, the main function. So there's an argument to be made that it's a little annoying to have to put my functions all at the top, which is just going to push main further and further down. So there is a solution, and this is dare say the only time copying and pasting is appropriate. Let me delete most of these blank lines which is unnecessarily dramatic and just move it below main as over here. The way I can uh the solution here though is to do this to copy the first line of the main function its so-called signature and then just put that one line and only that one line with a semicolon above main. And this is what's known as a prototype. So a prototype is just a bit of a hint to the compiler, a promise if you will, that hey compiler, there will exist a function called meow. It takes no input and it returns no output semicolon. And it's on the honor system that it will eventually exist later in the file. We'll talk more about this next week why that works, but this is sort of a promise to the compiler that it will eventually be defined. Now, what I've done here on line four as an aside is what's generally known as a comment. I just wanted to put on the screen exactly what I was verbalizing. Anything in C that starts with slash is a note to self, like a sticky note in Scratch, which is just for the human, not for the computer. And it's a way of reminding yourself or someone else what's going on on that line or those lines of code. But I'll go ahead and delete it for now is unnecessary because now if I go back into my terminal and clear those errors, make this cat again, now it does work because the cat uh the meow function has been defined exactly where it should be. And now I can make the new version of this uh cat even better. I could change the function meow to take a variable n as input for the number of times. And then in here I could do something like my for loop for int i equals z i less than n i ++. And then in this for loop I can print out quote unquote meow. And then I'm going to have to change this too because I have to copy and repaste it if you will or just manually fix that. But now I can get rid of all of this and do meow three for instance. And this now will be the second version of the scratch code. If you will make cat still going to work exactly the same. Meow meow meow. But now I've implemented my own function that does take input even though it doesn't happen to return any output. All right. Questions on any of these examples just yet? confusion. All right, let me add one other feature to this to demonstrate that we can take not only input but actually produce output if we want. If I go back into this code here, let me propose that it's a little silly to be hard coding that is fixating three. It'd be nice to get input from the user. So I could do this. I could use int n equals get int and say something like what's n question mark and then I could pass n in if only to demonstrate a couple of things. So one now the program is dynamic. I'm going to ask the user how many times to meow and I'm going to pass in that value n. Now this deliberately is confusing at the moment because wait a minute I got n defined here used here but then redefined here and then reused here. So it turns out that even if you create n up here and use the name n, no other functions can see it for that same issue of scope. So for instance, suppose I didn't quite remember this and I sort of naively just said void. Meow doesn't need to take any inputs because heck meow uh n is already defined in main. Let me go ahead and open my terminal and clear it. Make cat and see what error comes out here. Well, error cat. Oh, sorry. I made two mistakes here. Let me I also have to change the prototype up here to say void which means again meow takes no inputs. Let me go ahead now and rerun make cat. And there we have an undeclared identifier again n. So in cat line 14 which is here it doesn't like that I'm using n. But wait a minute I created n here but for the same logic as earlier. That's fine. You created n on line 8. But where does n exist? In what scope? Yeah, only between the curly braces, which is lines seven and 10. So by the time you get down to 14, it's out of scope, so to speak. So it just doesn't work. So the solution is exactly what I did the first time. I can pass it into meow as input, and I have to tell C to expect that input. And I can use the same name, but arguably that's going to get confusing sometimes. But let me do this. Let me go back into my code. Let me undo this change such that now meow does take an input, but instead of just calling it n and using n everywhere for number, this is crazy. Let's just call this like times. So meow takes some number of times and then it uses that value. And now I'm passing in on line 9 n, but in the context of the meow function on lines 12 onward, that same variable n is now referred to as times because you're passing it in as input and giving it its own name. And that's totally your prerogative. It's just a matter of scope. I mean, I could have called it M or some other letter of the alphabet, but times is even more clear because that's the number of times I want the cat to meow. But again, the whole point here is just this matter of scope. All right. So, let's take a higher level look now at some of the things we've been thinking about and then we'll do a final deep dive or two on some of the corner some of the problems that we can solve with all of these building blocks and some of the problems that we're sort of ignoring for now. So, when it comes to writing good code, CS50 and really the world in general tends to focus on these kinds of axes. Correctness, design, and style. What does this mean? Correctness just means does the code work the way it's supposed to? In the context of a class, it should do exactly what the homework assignment aka problem set tells you to do. In the real world, it should do exactly what someone decided the software should do, the product manager, the CEO, or the like. Correctness just means it behaves as it should. That's different though from how well designed the code might be. And we've seen that a few times. I've had some simplistic examples in Scratch and C that were 100% correct. Like it did the right thing logically, but I was wasting the computer's time. I was wasting the human's time by asking more boolean expressions than I needed to and so forth. So design is more about like in the in the world of English like not only saying things that are correct but doing it well like in making a good cogent argument not just one that happens to be correct. Style meanwhile is the third axis on which we might evaluate the quality of someone's code and that's more of the aesthetics like is everything pretty printed that is nicely indented are variables well- named and not just called XYZ arbitrarily or something like that. So style matters really to other humans, not to the computer, but to other humans. And to illustrate these, you'll see that in problem set one onward, you'll be given a number of tools that you can use. So one of those tools is called check 50. And in each problem set problem in C and Python and other languages, you'll be showed how you can test your own code. And you can literally run a command that CS50 created called check 50. You'll then specify what's called a slug, which just means a unique identifier for that homework problem. and you'll get uh quick feedback on whether or not your code is correct. It doesn't mean it's well implemented or well-designed or pretty that is well stylized. But at least that's the first gauntlet in getting good code submitted. Design though is much more subjective. Design is something you get feedback on from a human for instance in section or a teaching assistant or in software. You can actually see at top VS code there's a couple of buttons that I haven't yet used but could. Design 50 is built on top of the CS50 duck whereby if you have a program open in a tab, you click design 50, you will get chatgpt like advice on how you can improve not the correctness of that code but the design of that code, the quality thereof, which is a bit more subjective and modeled after what a good teaching assistant might say. Style 50, meanwhile, is a third tool that will provide you with feedback on the style of your code and will show you on the left what your code looks like and on the right what your code really should look like in so far as it should be consistent with what we've taught in class and consistent with CS50's so-called style guide. And those of you who have some prior programming experience undoubtedly won't like some of CS50's stylistic choices. And that's going to be the case in the real world, too. But as I alluded to earlier, in typical companies, you would have an official style guide or tool to which everyone adheres so that everyone's code actually looks the same as everyone else's even though people have contributed different solutions to problems. So correctness, design, style is not only how we but really the world at large tends to evaluate the quality of code and we do it by way of these CS50 specific tools here. All right, how about one final flourish then to this here program? Back in VS Code, I've got a correct solution right now. Um, it's well styled, I'll stipulate, even though it could stand to have some more comments. So, for instance, I could do something like this, like meow uh some number of times, a comment to myself. Or up here I could say something like uh get uh a number from user just to remind myself and my TA or my colleague what it is this code is doing. But what more could I do in the way of design? Well, this function here get in will indeed get me an integer but not just positive or zero but negative. And I could go in and add a bunch of code like before like I could actually do instead of this line I could do something like int n semicolon do the following. All right. n equals get int and then I can say what's n question mark and then after that I can do something like while n is less than zero keep doing that so I can have a pretty verbose implementation of getting user input or I can implement another function of my own that only gets a positive integer or non- negative integer from the user for instance I might do something like this uh I could uh declare at the bot uh maybe below my main function a function like this uh int uh how about get n and then inside of this I might say void because I'm not going to pass in any input then inside of this function is where I'm going to do int n do while uh n equals get int quote unquote what's n question mark and then down here I'm going to do while n is less than zero but rather than do something immediately with n because I'm no longer inside of my so-called main function. What I'm going to do, which is new, is return this value n. And notice that this notion of returning a value, which is the first time I've done this explicitly, is consistent with this little hint here on line 19, which implies that this get n function, which I'm inventing, is going to return not void, which means nothing, but an integer. And that's the whole purpose of this function in life. Now, if I scroll back down here, I can get rid of this whole block of code and just say get n from the user and then I can immediately call meow with that value. I need to do one other thing. I need to highlight this line of code here and I'm going to go ahead and add another prototype up top, which is the only time again for now that copy paste is encouraged and uh best to do. So, I've invented my own function getn. The whole point being now I have this sort of abstraction here of a function whose sole purpose in life is to get me not just an integer but one that is zero or positive and not negative. If I open my terminal window, clear the mess from before, make this cat dot slashcat. What's N3? I'm now back in business. And again, we've essentially translated from scratch last time into C this time. Exactly how we might modularize now the code. abstract away these lower level details and ultimately create my own function that as before takes not only arguments but in this case has not only side effects or doesn't have side effects but rather a return value this time. All right. So as you walked in we had a little walkthrough of Super Mario Brothers playing from yester year which was a sidescrolling game in which Mario would jump down and go up down left right and try to collect coins and make it to the end of the level. There's a lot of obstacles throughout this kind of game uh whereby the world might look a little something like this. Like there's a pit that Mario's got to jump over and then there's these coins hidden typically behind these question marks that he can jump up and hit his head with and actually acrew points. Now, we're not going to do anything graphical just yet. We're leaving graphics behind for now in the form of scratch. But with C, we can implement some of these ideas. For instance, if I were to write code to generate just this uh row of four question marks, I dare say there's a bunch of ways we can do this. In other words, let's see if we can't use all of today's building blocks to start implementing our own tiny version of Super Mario Brothers in a file, say, called Mario.c. So, let me open and clear my terminal window. Let me run code Mario.c. And let's just try to do something super simple like print four question marks in a row. Well, to do this, I need print f. So, I'm going to include standard io.h. I'm then going to do int main void. More on that next time. And inside of main, my default function that just automatically as before gets called for me. I'm going to print out the simplest possible implementation just print out four question marks like that. So no need per se for a loop just yet. But I think we can go down that rabbit hole too. Let me go down into my terminal window. Make this version of Mario dot / Mario. Enter. And voila, we have a very black and white version textual version of four question marks in the sky. Now I'm kind of cheating here by just hard- coding four question marks. What if I wanted not four but three or five or some number other number? Well, we could do that with a loop too. So let me change this code here and do something like this. Four int i equals say zero. I less than say four for now. I ++ then inside of this loop I can print out one question mark at a time. Semicolon. Now let me go back to the bottom. Make this version of Mario dot / Mario. Enter. And voila. It's not actually correct this time. So why am I getting a column instead of a row with this here change? &gt;&gt; Yeah. So I've got I foolishly included the backslash n after each question mark. Okay. So that seems like an easy fix. Let me get rid of that. Let me now recompile Mario. Rerun Mario. And now so close. Now I've just done something stupid. All right. I need the back slashn. So, I think I do want this here. Or what do you propose instead? &gt;&gt; Yeah, I should really put the back slash in outside of the loop. So, once I'm done printing all of the question marks, then I get the backslash. And that's fine, even though we haven't seen this before. Back slashn is an escape sequence that you can certainly print by itself. So, I do quote unquote back slashn outside of the loop below those curly braces. Now, if I do make Mario dot slashmario, now I get the four uh question marks in a row as well as the new line at the very end. So, again, kind of a little baby exercise, but demonstrative of how you can just take a few different techniques, a few different building blocks we've used to compose a correct solution to what a moment ago was a brand new problem. Well, let's try another. So later on in Super Mario Brothers when you go into sort of the underground world, you see or rather it's still above ground, you see a column of uh bricks like this that he has to jump over. So those here, how might we make a column? Well, we kind of had that solution already. And in fact, if I go back to VS Code here and just change this version of Mario, I think we can design this thing to be pretty simply the same. I is less than three though. And I do want to put the back slashn at the end there. Make Mario dot / Mario. And albeit textual, I've got my column of three uh of let's see, I don't want question marks. Let's make this a little better. Maybe we'll use the hash symbol because that kind of sort of looks like a square. So, make Mario dot / Mario. Okay, now we're back in business. But let's make it more interesting by going into Mario's underground now. And here's the third and final Mario problem whereby we want to implement like this 3x3 grid of bricks circled here. So, this one's interesting because we've never done something in two dimensions. I did horizontal, I did vertical, but we haven't really composed those ideas into the same. So, let me now think a little harder this time about how I can print out row, row, row. And this is where if you have in your mind's eye any familiarity with like old school typewriters, it's kind of the same idea where you want to print a row of bricks, then go back to the beginning, a row of bricks, then go back to the beginning, and a row of bricks. And that's kind of what print f has always been doing for us. It's printing line by line by line of text. It's not jumping around. So, we can leverage that perhaps as follows. Let me go into my main function here. And if I want to print out something two-dimensional, let me kind of think about it as rows and columns. So, maybe I could do this for int i equals 0, i less than 3, i ++. Why? Well, I want to do something three times. Even if I have no idea where I'm going with this solution, I at least want to do something three times, like three rows of text. But how about this? On each row, what do I want to do? I want to print out three things. So I could steal this idea like int i= 0, i less than 3, i ++. And then inside of this loop, let me just print out one brick at a time. No new lines yet. One brick at a time. But there is a bit of a problem here. This is correct to nest loops in this way. Totally fine to have an outer loop. Totally fine to have an inner loop. But I probably don't want the inner loops variable competing with the outer loops variable by giving them the same name. And that's fine. It is pretty conventional in code when you want another integer and it's not I because you've used it already. Fine. You can use J. So using I and J and K is generally fine. If you're using L, M, N, O, like at that point, you're probably doing something wrong. There's no hard line, but at some point it gets ridiculous and you should be coming up with better variable names. But I and J, maybe K is fine. So now what's really happening? Let me suppose that this is my uh for each row. This is my for each column I want to print one brick. Now this isn't quite correct but let me go ahead and make this version of Mario dot / Mario and ah now there's what? One, two, three. There's nine bricks there. So I'm close, right? It's supposed to be 3x3. Nine total. What do I want to do though to get this just right? Yeah, over on the left. Yeah. What on what line number would you or afterward? Uh where would I put the new line? Because I think I don't want to put it here because I'm going to get myself into trouble as before. How about in back? &gt;&gt; After the what? &gt;&gt; After 13. Yeah. So, after I finish printing each uh brick in the column from left to right, I'm going to go ahead and print out I think a single new line here, nothing else. And now, if I open my terminal, run Mike Mario again, dot / Mario. Now, we've got it. And it's not a perfect square like this one is because like the hashtags are kind of more vertical than they are horizontal, but it's pretty darn close. The e the takeaway here being you can certainly nest these kinds of ideas and compose them. And honestly, INJ is maybe making this uh more confusing than necessary. I could just give these better names like row, row, row, and then maybe call for column or column. I can spell it out if that's clearer. Column column just to make clear to myself, to my TA, to my colleagues what exactly these variables represent. And indeed, like an old school typewriter, the outer loop is handling row by row by row. But each time you're on a row, you first want to do column, column, column, column, column, column. And that's what logically the nesting is achieving. And again, if I do make Mario dot/mario, all I've done is change variable names. It has no functional effect beyond that. Now, this is a little more subtle, but there is a bit of duplication in this program. There's a bit of magic, and this is subtle, but does anyone want to conjecture what still could be improved here? What is maybe rubbing you the wrong way? &gt;&gt; Yeah, I've hardcoded the three here and here. It's not a big deal. It's like an in-class exercise. Like, who really cares if I'm just manually typing three. But if I want to make this square bigger and bigger and bigger over time, I'm going to have to change it in two different places. And I've conjectured last time and today eventually that's going to come back and bite you. You're going to do something stupid or a colleague isn't going to realize you hard-coded three in multiple places. Like just bad design. So, how could we fix this? Well, we could just declare a variable like n, set it equal to three, and then use n in both places. And that's pretty darn good. That's better because now we're reusing the value. But we can do one better than this. It turns out in C and in many languages too, there's the notion of a constant whereby if you want to store something in a variable, but you want to signal to the compiler that this value should never change. And better still you want to prevent yourself a human let or not not to mention a colleague from accidentally changing this value you can declare it to be constant or const for short. So if I go back into VS code on line five now and say constint that means that n is an integer that has a constant value. So if I do something stupid later in my code and I try to set n equal to something else the compiler won't let me do that. It will protect me from myself. So, it's just a slightly better design as well. All right, questions on any of these here, Mario examples. The first of our sort of real world problems, albeit simplified textually. All right, let's focus lastly on things we can't really do well with computers. Uh, namely some of the limitations thereof. So, here is a cheat sheet of some of the operators we've seen thus far. We played with these with comparison and uh doing some uh addition or the like but here we have addition, subtraction, multiplication, division and the modulo operator which is essentially the remainder operator which you can do with a single command uh with a single operator like this. Let's use some of these to make our own calculator and see what this calculator can and can't do for us. So back here in VS Code, let me open my terminal. Let's go ahead and create a program called calculator C. And in this program, let's do something super simple initially that just like adds two numbers together. So let's include first uh cs50.h so we can use our get functions. Then let's go ahead and include standard io.h so we can use print f. Let's just copy paste our usual ma uh int main void. And inside of main let's do this. Declare a variable x. Set it equal to get int. And let's ask the user what's x question mark. Then let's declare another variable y. set it equal to get int and ask the user what's y question mark. Then let's do something super simple like give me a third variable. Heck, we'll call it z. Set it equal to x + y. And then lastly, let's just print out the sum of x + y. So this is a super simple calculator for addition of two numbers. Print f quote unquote. What's the answer going to be? Well, it's not percent s. This was quick earlier. What's the placeholder to use for an integer? percent I back slashn and what do I want to substitute for that placeholder just z in this case we haven't quite done this before but again it's just the composition of some of our earlier ideas I can go ahead and make this calculator enter dot slashcal enter what's x is one what's y is two and indeed I get three so not a bad calculator it seems to be working correctly but it's maybe not the best design like it's generally frowned upon to create a variable like Z if you're only going to use it a moment later in one place. Like why are you wasting my time creating a variable just to use it once and only once? Sometimes it's fine if it makes your code more readable or clearer. And in fact, it might if I called it sum. Like that's arguably a net positive because I'm making clear to the reader that it's the sum of two variables. But even then, I'm quibbling. I could just get rid of that third variable altogether. And heck, I could just do x plus y right here. That's totally fine and reasonable, especially since it's still a pretty short line of code. It's not hard for anyone to read. Feels like a reasonable call. But this hints at again my comment on design being subjective. There's no steadfast rules here. Some of the TAs might disagree with me, but like h this feels fine. It's readable, which is probably the most important thing ultimately. Let's make this calculator dot /cal enter 1 2 and we still get three. So the code now is still working. As an aside, if you're starting to wonder how I type so fast, sometimes I'm kind of cheating with autocomplete. So if I know I want to create a program called calculator and calculator.c exists, I can start typing c tab and you can hit tab to sort of autocomplete the rest of the file name if it happens to exist there. Better still, if I want to go back to previous commands I've typed, I can actually use my up and down errors to go through my history. So if I go up up, you'll see all of the recent commands I typed, and that saves me time, too. So just little keyboard shortcuts that speed things along. All right. All right. Well, let's do something like this. Not just addition, why don't we use some multiplication? So, how about we prompt the user not for two um numbers, but how about just one initially x and let's go ahead and multiply x by two. And I would do x asterisk 2, which is the multiplication operator in C. Let's make this version of the calculator dot/cal. And now, what's x? Let's do 1. So 1 * 2 is 2. Let's do this again. Let's type in 2. 2 * 2 is 4. Let's do this again. 3. 3 * 2 is 6. and so forth. That's fine. It seems to work. But maybe let's implement like a recent meme from the past year or two. How about this? Let's uh let's see if you recognize it as we go. So, I'm going to get rid of this code al together. And inside of my calculator, I'm going to do something like int dollars equals $1 by default. Then I'm going to deliberately induce an infinite loop just for demonstration sake. Then I'm going to do a character from the user and say something like this using getch char which gets a single character. Uh, how about I'll tell the user here's this many dollars percent I with a US uh dollar sign before it double it and give to next person question mark if you're familiar with that one and I'm going to prompt them for yes no answer but I'm going to plug in the current number of dollars so they know what they're wagering on then below this I'm going to say if the character the human typed in equals equals y for yes then I'm going to go ahead and do dollars times equals 2 which recall was our shorthand notation for doubling something. Uh, in this case, I could more pedantically say equals dollars* 2. But again, I can save some keystrokes and do dollar uh times equals 2 instead. There's no plus+ there's no star star trick asteris asterisk trick. You have to do it in this way uh minimally. However, if the user does not want to double it and give it to the next person, then let's do an else and just break out of this infinite loop altogether. But notice what I've deliberately done in get char similar to print f. I have included a placeholder. Why we implemented getchar and get in and get string just like print f in that you can pass in placeholders and plug in values. Why? Well again for the meme sake I want to be able to tell the user how much money I'm about to hand them when I ask them the question. Do you want to double it and give it to the next person? I want to see the number. And the dollar sign is just because we're talking about dollars. The percent i is because we're talking about integers. All right. If I didn't mess this up, let's make this version of a calculator or meme. So far so good. Dot/calculator. Enter. Here's $1, which was the initial value of my dollars variable on line six. Double it and give it to the next person. All right. Why? Here's $2. Double it and give it to the next person. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. I'm going to do it faster. It's getting pretty good. You can see the power of exponentiation. It's getting pretty high. Let's keep going. Keep going. Lot of doll. Too far. That does not happen in the memes. What happened here? What's going on? Yeah. What do you think? &gt;&gt; Exactly. Good intuition. Because the computer only has a finite number of bits allocated to each integer. I hypothesized earlier that it's usually 32 bits, maybe 64 bits, but it's finite, which means you can only count so high and it's roughly 4 billion or again an integer by default can be negative or positive. So it's roughly 2 billion and that's pretty close to what we were getting here. In fact, we overflowed the integer in memory. In fact, integer overflow is a term of art whereby you can overflow an integer by trying to store too big of a value in it. And the reason for this is again to make this clear, this is a piece of memory inside of a laptop or a desktop or some other device. And in these little black chips is a whole bunch of bits or really bytes that can store information electronically. But they allocate those bits in units of 8, maybe 16, maybe 32, maybe 64, but finitely many per value. And whether we're using 32 or 64, you can only count so high if you have a finite number of bits. And we've seen this problem even on a small scale with our flat light bulbs last week. If we have a three-digit number as represented by like three physical light bulbs or three tiny transistors in the computer, I can count from zero to one to two to three to four to five to 6 to 7. If I want to count to eight though, I need a fourth bit. But as the red suggests, if you don't have a fourth bit, for all intents and purposes, that number is just zero. Or as an aside, depending on how you're representing your number, sometimes a leading one indicates that the number itself is negative, which is why in VS Code, we actually saw both symptoms. First, we went negative because we wrapped around logically, much like that one resulted in our getting back effectively to zero, and then we did indeed end up on zero ultimately. So, how can we chip away at this? Well, a couple of solutions perhaps. Let me close my terminal window here, and instead of using an int, well, let's just kick the can down the road. Let's use a long which is 64 bit. So at least we can give away even more money in this scenario. I can't use percent I and need to use percent li now for a long integer. But I think at this point if I go back to VS Code's terminal window here. Oh, and I quit that program by hitting C quickly. Uh now I'm going to go ahead and do make calculator again dot /cal. And I'm just going to keep hitting Y. But because I'm using a long int now and thus 64 bits, if I do this long enough, it's going to get crazy high and much much higher than before. High enough that I'm not going to keep clicking Y enter because we're never going to hit the boundary. But eventually, especially if I did this in a loop automatically, it would certainly Oh. Oh, okay. I guess exponentiation works fast. Okay, so it did work. I didn't think I was going to hit it enough times, but the same problem happened again. We overflowed this long integer even using that many bits because I was talking so long I kept hitting y enough times to overflow even that long integer. So that too was a problem and this happens truly in the real world. So picture here is a Boeing 787 from a few years back, long before there were all the more recent problems with Boeing planes, whereby after 248 days of continuous power, which is kind of a thing in the aviation industry, like time is money and generally they want the planes in the air as much as possible, which means they want them powered on as much as possible, which means they don't like turn them off at night. They keep them going and flying. After 248 days, the New York Times reported a few years back that a model 787 airplane that has been powered continuously for 248 days can lose all alternating current electrical power due to the generator control unit simultaneously going into failsafe mode. This condition is caused by a software counter internal to the GCUs that will overflow after 248 days of continuous power. Boeing is in the process at the time of developing a GCU software upgrade that will remedy the unsafe condition. So literally what this means is that the power to these planes would just shut off if the planes were on for more than 248 days at a time. And this was a common thing for planes to be maximal power. Why was this actually happening or what was the solution? Well, the short-term fix because it took a while for Boeing to fix this was what? What would you do if the the symptom is that the plane shuts off mid-flight after 248 days? Yeah. &gt;&gt; Turn it off back on. literally turn it off and back on again, much like you've probably been taught with your phones and computers and any other electronic devices that somehow freak out on occasion. Reboot the plane. Now, why is that? Well, anytime you reboot a phone or a laptop or a plane, all of those variables get reset to their default values, which if it's the first line of code, like in some of my examples, gets set back to zero again. For instance, the first line of code is executed from top to bottom. So, this effectively solved the problem. But when they finally rolled out a fix, then you didn't have to do that anymore. But the or source of the problem is essentially that they were probably using 32-bit integers, but also negative values. So they had 31 bits at their disposal to count to positive numbers. And 248 days is roughly how many tenths of a second there are, which means once you count in tenths of a second for 248 days, you would overflow an integer and the power would shut off effectively because something ended up going to zero. So, there was a lot of sort of marketing speak or technical speak in that, but it boiled down to just a simple integer overflow. There's a historical bug in Pac-Man. If you've ever played this uh in any of its forms, whereby you can play up to level 255, but because there was a missing if condition that checked what level you were on, you could accidentally garble the screen if you were amazing at Pac-Man because they too would overflow an integer and just random characters would end up appearing on the screen. So, it's sort of like a badge of honor to actually hit level 256 in this way because of this bug. But there's yet other issues we can see here. And if you don't mind, we might go a couple minutes over, but let me just demonstrate what these examples can do for us here. If I were to revamp my calculator here as follows by clearing my terminal window after hitting C to kill that, let me go ahead and get rid of all of this meme code here. Scrolling down to the inside of main, and let's just do a couple of things like this. int x equals uh quote unquote uh what's x question mark. Then let's go ahead and do int equals get int quote unquote what's y question mark. Then let's go ahead and print out just x / y. So here's a percent i back slashn x / y. This would seem to be a calculator now for division which I can make as before. And actually sorry I don't want to do missing terminating. Oh, sorry. Missing a double quote. There was an unintended bug. So, if I make this your calculator, do do/calculator, type in 1, type in three, I get zero, which is weird. What if I do instead maybe two and three? It's zero instead of 66. What if I do three and three? Well, that curiously works. But if I do something like four and three, which would be 1.33, that two doesn't seem to work. So there's this other issue in computing when you have finite numbers of bits known as truncation whereby even when you're trying to do floatingoint math like with a decimal point if you are using an integer you're going to throw away everything after the decimal point unless you're explicitly using the right data type. And we saw an illusion to this earlier. If I actually go in now and change my values from integers to floats and change the percent i to a percent f and remake this calculator. Now I can do 1 / 3 and I actually get back that their response. But there's another issue latent here which happens to in the real world whereby I'm going to tweak this percent f to be a little arcane. It turns out you can tell C how many digits you want to show, how many significant digits you want, if you will, by just using a dot and then a number like 50 arbitrarily. And contrary to what you might have learned in grade school, this calculator would seem to think that dot /calc 1 divided by three is not 0.3333 infinitely many times. There's all this random stuff happening at the end. Long story short, this is because computers one only use finitely many bits even to represent floatingoint numbers. And if there's an infinite number of those, you can't possibly represent every possible floatingoint value. So we're essentially seeing an approximation of 1/3 precisely. But this too happens quite a bit in the wild. There's really no solution to this other than by throwing more bits at the problem using a a double instead of a float or at least somehow trying to detect this and catch this. That then is what we'd call floatingoint imprecision. But to tie this together and sort of induce a bit of fear and for the coming years these things happen all of the time. Back when I was finishing school, there was the so-called Y2K problem or year 2000 problem whereby for decades, computers had been using not four digits to represent years, but just two because it was convenient. It was more efficient because you use half as much memory to represent maybe the year 1999, just using two digits instead of four. Of course, when the uh year rolled around from 20 thou from 1999 to 2000, if you didn't have these numbers even in memory, you might confuse 2000 with 1900, which was the presumption if you're only storing two digits. So, we screwed that up. And thankfully, the world scrambled. And if you read up on Wikipedia and news articles from the time, everyone thought the world might very well end, but it didn't. So, you'd think we'd have learned our lesson. Unfortunately, another such problem is coming up in the year 2038 whereby historically since uh the 70s and prior, computers have generally used 32-bit integers to keep track of time, the date and the time by means of counting how many seconds have passed since January 1st, 1970. And all of the math is just relative to that date because that's when computers were really starting to come onto the scene, if you will. Unfortunately, there's only 4 billion values you can count to or two billion if you're doing negatives from uh January 1st, 1970. And so, um on the date January 19th, 2038, we will overflow a 32-bit counter. And suddenly, if this problem is not fixed by you or other people before the year 2038, our computers and phones and other devices may very well think it's December 13th, 1901. So, there are solutions to these problems. CS50 is all about empowering you with solutions to these problems. But if you'd like to scan this here code, um, this will add that date to your Google calendar or your Outlook calendar. Keep an eye on it. That though is week one for CS50. Problem set one will be in your hands soon. We'll see you next time. Heat. Heat. One fish. Two fish. Red fish. Blue fish. &gt;&gt; Congratulations. Today is your day. You're off to great places. You're off and away. &gt;&gt; It was a bright, cold day in April, and the clocks were striking 13. Winston Smith, his chin nuzzled into his breast in an effort to escape the vile wind, slipped quickly through the glass doors of victory mansions, though not quickly enough to prevent a swirl of gritty dust from entering along with him. two. And if we could after this dramatic reading, a round of applause for our volunteers. So we can now take for granted from week one that we now have a new way to express some of the ideas that we first explored in week zero like functions and conditionals and variables and the like. And now we're doing in C what we used to do in Scratch. Today what we're going to start to focus on is some real world problems so that we can take for granted that we have that expressiveness. We have some tools in our toolkit and actually start to solve some realworld problems if representative thereof. In particular, the real world problem that we're going to start today and this week with is that of reading levels. Odds are when growing up, you read at a certain level based on the age at which you were at. Maybe it was first grade level or fifth grade level or 10th grade level or the like. And that was a function of just how comfortable you were with the words in the book or words on the screen that you were reading. What you've just heard, thanks to our volunteers, are three different reading levels that each of these three volunteers reads at. And in fact, why don't we go ahead and hear them again and be a little more thoughtful this time as to assess at what reading level your classmate is reading. So, let's start with Leah if you'd like to introduce yourself first. Hi, I'm Leah. I'm a first year in Hworthy. And here is my little thing. One fish, two fish, red fish, blue fish. &gt;&gt; So, at what reading level would you say Leah reads based on her recitation thereof? Yeah, in the front. &gt;&gt; Kindergarten. &gt;&gt; Kindergarten. Okay. Okay. So, a fairly young age. And what makes you say kindergarten? &gt;&gt; He is speaking in very short phrases without much complexity. &gt;&gt; Okay. Very short phrases without much complexity. And indeed, according to one scientific measure that we'll explore in this week's problem set, indeed. We would say that Leah reads before grade 1, so kindergarten would indeed be apt. But welcome to the stage here. Let's move on now to Maria if you'd like to introduce yourself. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Hi, I'm Maria. I'm in Stoutton thinking of applied math. Um, congratulations. Today is your day. You're off to great places. You're off and away. &gt;&gt; Another familiar phrase, perhaps. At what reading level would you say Maria is? Well, yeah. Over here. &gt;&gt; Third grade. &gt;&gt; And what makes you say second or third grade? &gt;&gt; Okay. &gt;&gt; So, now we're starting to introduce uh complexities like rhyming and a bit more substance to the quote. And indeed, based on that reading, that same measure that I described earlier, which will involve a mathematical function that somehow analyzes what it is Maria just said. Indeed, we would conclude that she read at a third grade level or grade three. Finally, Omar, if you'd like to introduce yourself and read once more yours. &gt;&gt; Okay. Um, so, hi everyone. I'm Omar. Um, I'm a freshman at Earl, but thinking of doing Kamsai and this is my reading. Um, it was a bright cold day in April and enough to prevent the swirl of gritty dust from entering along with him. &gt;&gt; All right, sort of escalated quickly. What reading level is Omar at, would you say? Someone else. What might you say or estimate? Yes, right here in the front. &gt;&gt; Eighth grade. &gt;&gt; Okay, eighth grade. And what made you say that? more comp, &gt;&gt; more complex sentences, more complex words. And indeed, according to that same measure, this full paragraph of text now, which indeed has even more grammar when you see it there on the screen, would be said to be at grade 10 because of that added complexity. So, with that said, we're going to need to be able to somehow sort of crunch these numbers to determine given a body of text at what reading level someone is. But in order to do that and apply any metrics to a body of text, we're going to need to represent that text in memory using something like strings from last week. But last week with strings, we could really just print them out or display them wholesale on the screen. But I think we're going to need to break down these various texts and others like it at a finer grain level. And indeed, among the goals for today is to explore exactly that. and also to take the proverbial hood off of the car to take a look underneath and how the computer is actually working, how these things like strings are actually functioning. So, if you could join me one last time in a round of applause for our volunteers. Thank you so much for helping out. Thank you guys. Thank you. Thank you to Maria as well. So among the goals for today beyond exploring a representative problem like this of reading levels is going to be another one which is even more important and more omnipresent than reading levels namely cryptography. The art of scrambling information or specifically encrypting it so you can send secure communications. Now you sort of take this for granted increasingly nowadays that when you send a text message or perhaps an email or check out online with a credit card that somehow or other your information is secure. And over the coming weeks, we're going to explore to what extent that is actually true and why or why. Now, now with cryptography, similarly too, if we want to be able to send messages securely, such that if I want to send a message to you, I don't want anyone else in the room to be able to figure out what it is I have said, even if they physically intercept that message, which is all too possible in a digital world. We're going to need to come up with metrics and mechanisms for actually scrambling information in a reversible way so that I can write my message somehow scramble it. You can receive that message even if after it's passed through many other hands and you can descramble or decrypt that same message. So for instance, here on the screen is a message, a fairly simplistic one that has somehow been encrypted. And we'll see by the end of today and by the end of this week that this encrypted message and there's a bit of a tell on the end there actually will be said to decrypt to this is CS50. But why is going to be the underlying question and what additional tools do we need on our toolkit in order to do that? Another word on tools. So, up until now, you've probably experienced some bugs, whether it was in Scratch or ever more so in C. In fact, don't feel too bad if like the very first program you wrote in C like didn't even work. You couldn't even make it or compile it until you went back and fixed some of the code that you had written. Well, it turns out that bugs, mistakes in programs are ever so commonplace. And even though we've already provided you with tools like the virtual rubber duck at CS50.ai, also embedded into VS Code at CS50.dev, dev of whom you can ask questions along the way. Among the goals today are to give you some lifelong tools at how you can actually debug software yourself when you don't have a duck nearby, when you don't have a TA nearby, let alone any humans at all. So with debugging, there's going to be a number of techniques that we can use all toward an end of like finding and removing bugs or mistakes from our software. And perhaps the person best known for having popularized this term of bugs is that of uh Dr. uh Grace Hopper pictured here who was a rear admiral in the Navy and was one of the original programmers of the so-called Harvard Mark1, a very early mainframe computer that if you wander across the Charles River over to the science and engineering complex here at Harvard, you can actually see part of this on display still in the lobby. It was succeeded by the Harvard Mark II. And on the Harvard Mark II, Dr. Hopper and her team were known for having put this note in their log book after having done some number crunching on the system there. And if we zoom in, they had found a problem with the computer this one day whereby there was literally a bug, a moth inside of the circuitry of the computer. And as was written here, first actual case of bug being found. And ever since then, do we say ever more so, the phrase bug and debugging when it comes to finding and eliminating problems in our code. So let's start with just that. In fact, let me go over to VS Code and let's deliberately make some mistakes together that might very well be reminiscent of some of the mistakes you've accidentally made thus far, but along the way give you all the more tools for solving those problems as opposed to sort of uh having to ask someone else, be it virtual or physical, for help and actually find these mistakes in your own code. Let me go ahead and consciously in VS Code create a program known to be buggy called buggy.c. And in this program, let's go ahead and do some fairly familiar code initially. I'm going to go ahead and start just like we did last week with int main void. More on that today before long. Uh inside of my curly braces, I'm going to say print f hello, world. Uh that's it. Now I'm going to go back to my terminal window here. I'm going to go ahead and do make buggy to make a program from that source code. But before I do, odds are even after just a week of this stuff, you can probably spot a few mistakes I've made, a few bugs. What do you see wrong already? Yeah, &gt;&gt; include standard. &gt;&gt; I didn't include standard io.h, that so-called header file, which is important because it tells the compiler that I plan to use functions therein like print f, which clearly I'm doing. So, let me go in and include standard io.h. What else seems to be wrong here? Yeah. I'm missing a semicolon at the end of line five here. So, I'm going to go ahead and add that in. And this is subtle and arguably not a bug, but maybe an aesthetic detail. What else have I done arguably wrong? Yeah. And back. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I forgot my backslash and the new line character just to move the cursor to the next line so that when I get a new prompt, it's on a fresh line of its own. Again, more of an aesthetic, but certainly a pretty reasonable thing to do. So, let me go ahead now and actually in my terminal window run make buggy. and it indeed compiled. But up until then, had I not fixed those mistakes, I would have triggered a whole bunch of bugs, a whole bunch of error messages as a result. In fact, let's rewind in time and undo the fixes I just made and go back to the original form here and try running again. Make buggy. Enter. And we'll see some scary looking messages up here. Let me scroll up to the top of the output here where we see buggy c, which means line three. That's where the problem is right now. error call to undeclared library function print f with type and then it starts to get a little more complicated but I do see clearly that it's calling my attention to print f. So hopefully at some point if not last week hopefully this week onward your instinct will be ah all right I'm an idiot I forgot the header file in which print f is actually declared it's not a huge deal it's going to come with practice so that's how I might know uh in more intuitively what in fact uh the solution here might be now here's another common mistake that I've just gone in and fixed but I did do something wrong and hopefully none of you actually did this because it's an annual FAQ. What did I just do accidentally wrong? So it's not studio.h, it's standard io.h. So do kind of ingrain that one for standard input output. The next though bug that I haven't yet fixed is that semicolon. So let me clear my screen and rerun make buggy. I should no longer see that first error message anymore. But I now do see another error message on line five. Expected semicolon after expression. All right, that one's pretty explicit. So I'm going to go ahead and fix this. But notice that up until now, my code wouldn't have been able to compile because of those two error messages. it stopped showing me uh by showing me these errors. But at this point, if I run make buggy enter, it did in fact compile. And yet it's arguably still buggy because when I run dot /buggy, I get my prompt on the wrong line. So this is a distinction now between a syntax error, something that or a programming error that outright stops my program from compiling. It's sort of a dealbreaker versus something that's maybe more of a logical error. I actually meant to move the cursor to the next line. And so there's different types of errors in the world as we're seeing here. Of course, if I rerun make buggy again/buggy. Now we're back in business hopefully with the intention of having this uh display exactly that. All right. Well, let's modify to look a little more like something else from last week. Recall that last week I started to get someone's name more dynamically. So I said something like name equals get string. And that was a function we introduced. And I might have said something like this. what's your name? question mark with a space just to move the cursor over. I know now I definitely need to end my thought with a semicolon. I could try and compile this make buggy now and I'm seeing a different error message altogether that you might not have seen yet. So on buggy.c line five error use of undeclared identifier name. What now is the mistake that I've made? Why does it not know? declare the type. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I forgot to declare the type of this variable, which for those of you with the prior programming experience is not something you have to do in some languages like Python for instance. But in languages like C, C++, Java, and others, you do in fact need to explicitly tell the compiler that you want to instantiate a variable, create a variable in the computer's memory by telling it its type. And it's not going to be an int because I don't want an integer, of course, in this case. I want text which we now know to be called string instead. All right, I think this fixes that bug. So, let me do make buggy again. And hopefully, huh, a fatal error this time. Again, indicating that my code did not recompile on line five. Still, I have an error, but this time it says use of undeclared identifier string. Did I mean standard in? So, this is a bit of a red herring. The compiler is trying to be helpful and saying did I mean standard in but I don't think I actually do that just is the most similar looking word in the compiler's own memory. What's the actual mistake that I've made here? Yeah, &gt;&gt; you didn't CS library. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I didn't include the CS50 header file because string recall is a feature of the CS50 library as is get string and get int and others. So the solution here is indeed to go up here and just to be nitpicky I tend to alphabetize my header files. It's not strictly required technically but stylistically I find it nice to be able to skim the header files alphabetically to see if something is there or not. I can include cs50.h in addition to standard io.h and it's in that file c50.h that not only is get string define declared so that the compiler knows that it exists it turns out so is the word string. So this is a bit of a white lie and this is something we do in the early weeks of the class. We dug up these old training wheels from a bicycle. The whole idea being to sort of keep you up and avoid you having to do all too much complexity early on. The point of these training wheels in the form of the CS50 library is to let us kind of ignore what a string really is for just another week or two after which we will then uh peel back that layer, take off those training wheels and reveal to you what is actually going on. So, for now, strings exist, but they exist because of the CS50 library. In a couple of weeks, they're still going to exist, but we're going to call them by a different name, as we'll eventually see. But everyone in the real world, uh, every software developer uses the phrase string. So, this is a concept that exists. It is not CS50 specific at all. It's just that in C, the word string doesn't typically exist unless you make it so, as we have. All right. So I think now if I clear my terminal window and rerun make buggy now it should in fact compile. And if I run dot /buggy enter I should be able to type in my name. And now voila hello. So this is now not a syntax error because I didn't screw up my code per se like it compiled. Everything is grammatically correct so to speak but logically intellectually this is not what I wanted right I wanted it presumably to say hello David. So, let's fix one final bug here. How do I fix this? On what line? How do I get it to say, "Yeah, hello, David." &gt;&gt; Yeah. On line seven, I need to do the string placeholder, the format code, so to speak, percent s. And then one more thing, someone else. What do I do after this? Yeah. And back. &gt;&gt; Yeah. A comma. and then add the variable name that contains the value I want to substitute in there which is indeed name though I could have called it anything I want. All right, so now make buggy enter seems to have compiled again dot /buggy. Now I type in my name once more and now we're back in business. So over the course of these few exercises, clearly I I meant to make most of all of these bugs, these mistakes, but they demonstrate not only syntax errors, which are just going to stop the compiler in its tracks. Like you won't even be able to compile your code until you fix those things, but even after that, there could be these latent bugs that seem to not be there until you actually provide input and see what's actually happening at so-called runtime when you're running the actual code. And so here's where it's no longer as easy as just reading the error message and figuring out what it means because there is no error message that appeared on the screen when it said hello, world. We had to use our own human intellect and realize, okay, that's clearly not what I wanted. Had you run CS50's own check 50 program on something like that, we could have told you that that's not correct by automatically assessing the correctness of it. But the compiler has no idea what you are trying to achieve logically. it only knows about the language C itself and the requisite syntax for actually uh writing and compiling code. So how could we go about solving logical problems in code? So I would propose that we start to consider this here list whereby when you want to find a logical problem in your code and better understand what's going on or really what's going wrong, print f is going to be your friend. Up until now we've used printf to literally print on the screen. Hello David, hello Kelly or anything else on the screen. But you can certainly use print f temporarily to just print stuff out inside of your program that you might want to better understand. And then once you understand it and once you've solved some problem fine then you can delete those temporary lines of code recompile and move on. So let's use print f as a debugging tool in that sense. Let me go back over to VS Code here and let me in this same program buggy.c see sort of delete everything and start over with a different sort of bug. I'm going to include standard io.h at the top. I'm going to do int main void after that. And then inside main, I'm going to do a simple for loop that just prints out like a a stack of three bricks like we saw in the world of Mario when Mario needed to we claimed sort of jump over a stack of bricks. We want to print out just three of those at the moment. So I'm going to go ahead and say for int i equals 0. i is less than or equal to three because I want three of these i ++. Then inside of this for loop, I'm going to go ahead and quite simply do print f hash symbol to represent the brick followed by a new line to move the cursor to the next line. Semicolon to complete the thought. Now, I've deliberately made a stupid mistake here, but in the context of a simple enough program that we can focus on the debugging technique on, not on the obscurity of the bug in question. Hopefully, you'll spot the bug in just a moment, if not already. When I do make buggy now and dot/buggy, I don't get three bricks. I of course get one 2 3 four total. So, there's a logical bug in this program. And odds are you can already spot what it is. But let me propose that this program is representative of a type of problem that you can solve a little more diagnostically by poking around and really asking the computer via printf to show you what's really going on. And I would propose that one of the most helpful techniques in a situation like this if you're trying to wrap your mind around why are there four bricks instead of three. Well, clearly this is related to the loop somehow. So let's look a little more thoughtfully at what the value of i is before we print out each of those bricks. And I might literally do something like this temporarily. Uh, print f quote unquote i is percent i back slashn close quote. And then I could just print right here and now the value of i just so that I can actually see it. Let me now go down into my terminal window make buggy again dot /buggy. And now and I'll full screen my terminal. I'll get some diagnostic information at the same time. So when I is one I get a brick. When I sorry when I is zero I get a brick. When I is one, I get another brick. When I is two, I get another brick. When I is three, I get a fourth brick. So now I can kind of see that, okay, my loop is working, but I'm going too far. I'm going too long. Now I can do this even more succinctly. For what it's worth, I don't need a whole new print def statement. I could just go into my existing print def, put my percent I there, and then maybe a space just to scooch things over and then print out I in that same line. If I now do makebuggy slashbuggy. Okay, now I'm seeing that I'm printing a hash a brick for each value of i from i equals 0 1 2 and also three. So the solution of course is that I shouldn't be starting at zero and iterating less than or equal to three. The solution is like ah I'm an idiot. I should have said less than three. Or if I prefer to count starting at one like a normal person, I could have set I equal to one and then go up two and through three. But as I claimed last week, the canonical way, the most common way to do this is start counting at zero and go up two, but not through the total value that you have in mind. But there's going to be another technique that's worth knowing here. Let me go ahead and sort of abstract this away by whipping up a slightly better variant of this as follows. Let me go ahead and delete this for loop. Let me assume for the moment that inside of main I'm going to ask the user now for the height of a pyramid. And I'm going to do something like this. int h equals get int. And let's prompt the user for the height value of this pyramid or this wall. And then let's go ahead and assume there exists a function called print column who takes as input a number h which is how many bricks you want to print. Now this function does not exist yet. Print column. Get in does exist but I don't have access to it. So let me not make the same mistake twice. What do I need to add at the top of this file? &gt;&gt; CS50 header file. &gt;&gt; I need the CS50 header file because I'm using the get int function now, which again comes from our library, not C. So, let me go ahead and include CS50.h, but now print column. I can invent this function myself. So, let me go ahead and say void print column int height in parenthesis. More on that in just a moment. And then I'm going to recreate the loop from before for int i equals z. I is less than or equal to the height. So I'm going to deliberately for now make that same mistake as before. i ++ and then inside of this for loop I'm going to go ahead and print out a single hash and a new line to represent that there brick. So now main can use a function called print column. It's going to pass in the value of h and then this for loop in the print column function is going to take care of printing this thing for me. So, let me do this again. Make buggy. Enter. So far so good. Dot /buggy. Let's put in a height. I'm going to say manually height of three. And I should see three bricks. But of course, I'm still seeing four. Now, before we move on, let me hide my terminal and propose that this is just kind of stylistically bad to put anything other than your main function at the top. But recall that if I move my helper function, print column, and it's a helper function in so far as I made it to help me solve another problem. I can't recompile and run my code now. Why? The compiler won't let me. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Exactly. When the compiler gets to line seven of my code, it's going to abort compilation because it doesn't know what print column is. Why? Because I don't tell it what it is until line 10. And this was the only time I proposed that copy paste is reasonable is to highlight and copy the very first line of that function. Paste it above main with a semicolon. And that's a so-called function prototype. It specifies what the name of it is, what its inputs are if any, and what its output is if any. And more on these inputs and outputs later on. But now this is just a more complicated but more modularized version of this same program. Let me do make buggy. Still compiles dot /buggy. type in three and I still have that same bug. But the catch now is that my code has gotten more complicated. And the point of my having abstracted away this idea of printing a column into a new function is that there's just more code now to debug. I could certainly go in there and start adding print fs, but at some point print f is going to be a very primitive tool and you're going to waste more time adding print defs, recompiling your code, running your code, changing the print f, recompiling your code, running your code. It's going to get very tedious quickly when you have lots of lines of code on the screen. So, can I actually step through my code line by line? Maybe like your TA would in a section or a small class line by line walking through the code. You can because another tool that you have access to is that called debug 50. So, this is a CS50 command that will start an industry standard debugger. And a debugger is a piece of software that is used in the real world that literally lets you do that, debug your code by letting you slow down or even pause execution and walk through execution of your code line by line. The only reason we call it debug 50 is because in VS Code it's a little annoying to start the debugger. And so we automated the process of starting the debugger, but everything thereafter has nothing to do with CS50 and everything to do with realworld software engineering techniques. So how do we use this? Let me go back to VS Code here and let me propose that I want to step through this code line by line just like we might at a whiteboard in a smaller class to figure out why I'm getting four instead of three hashes. Well, in my terminal window, what I'm going to go ahead and do is this debug50 space/buggy. So debug 50 is the command. It needs to know what program I want to debug. So I'm specifying/buggy, which is the name of the program I just compiled. I'm going to get an error though the first time I run this. Uh, as will you if you make the same mistake. I'm about to see this message here. Looks like you haven't set any break points. Set at least one break point by clicking to the left of a line number and then rerun debug 50. So, what is this really telling me? Well, the debugger has no idea when and where I want to pause execution so as to start walking through my code line by line. It wants me to tell it where to break. That is where to pause by clicking on a line number. So, let me hide my terminal for just a moment. And you've probably never done this intentionally, but if you hover over the space to the left of your program's line numbers, you'll see a little red dot, a little stop sign of sorts. If you actually click on a line number, that red dot will stay there. And you can see the hover here saying click to add breakpoint. What I'm going to go ahead and do is say click to add a breakpoint at main. Maine is the entry point to my program. It's the default function that gets called. Let's break right away so I can step through this code line by line. All right, let me reopen my terminal window and clear it and then run debug 50 again with dot slashbuggy enter. And now a whole bunch of stuff is going to happen quickly on the screen. And then it's going to clean itself up because once the debugger is running and ready to go, it's going to allow me to start stepping through my code line by line. So what is going on? Well, notice nothing has happened in the terminal yet. Why? Because my code has been paused inside of main. in particular, it's been paused in the first real line of code. So the curly brace is uninteresting. The first line is just the function's name essentially. So line 8 is the first juicy line of code that could possibly do anything useful. It's been highlighted here in yellow. And that the fact that this cursor is here means that we have broken execution on this line, but we have not yet executed this line, which is why in the terminal, I don't see anything yet. I definitely don't see height followed by colon. Notice what else has happened here. All of a sudden in the lefth hand side of the screen where your file explorer typically is or where the CS50 duck typically is, we see mention of variables, you can actually see inside of the debugger what the value of any variable in the computer's memory happens to be. Now I don't quite understand this right now. We'll come back to this over time, but weirdly before line a 8 even executes, it seems that h has a default value of 32,764, which seems to have come from nowhere. As an aside, this is going to be what's called a garbage value. And this is actually why we have Oscar so omnipresently here. A garbage value tends to be a default value inside of a variable that's the result of that memory having been used previously for something else. Inside of your computer, you've got all of this memory, random access memory or RAM. More on that today. And it stands to reason that the my computer or whatever cloud server we're using has been running for some time. So the bits that H is going to use might already have some random switches on and off. Some random pattern of bits that happens to give me 32,764. But the moment this line of code executes, that value is going to get changed to what I actually want it to be, which is what the human is going to type in. Meanwhile, at the bottom here, you'll see a so-called call stack. More on this too in the weeks to come, but you'll see that we've paused on the function called main in the file called So, how do I do something useful? Well, at the very top of the debugger, you'll see a whole bunch of color-coded icons. One looks like a play button. And if I click that, it's just going to continue execution of my code as though I don't want to step through it anymore. So, I'm not going to click that just yet. The second arrow, which is a little curved arrow over a dot, is the so-called step over line, which will mean step over this line and execute it, but only one line at a time. Let's go ahead and do exactly that. So, I'm going to click the step over icon, the second one, which is the curved arrow with the dot under it. Click. Now, I see in my terminal window height being prompted. All right, let's go ahead and type in three, just like I did before, and hit enter. Now, notice what happens. Execution has paused on line 9 instead of 8. And you'll see that my variable, a so-called local variable, has the value of three as intended. All right. So far, this isn't all that enlightening other than demonstrative of the fact that I can pause execution of my program anytime I want. So, let's now click that step over button again so that we actually print this column. Click. And there we have it. Four hashes at the bottom of the screen. Now, execution has paused at the end of the function. This is just my opportunity to either stop or restart or continue. I'm just going to go ahead and click the play button and let it finish executing. Unfortunately, that wasn't really at all in enlightening except to confirm for me that I typed in three and three is what