is in the computer's memory. Not that interesting though yet. So, let's do this. Let's leave the breakpoint on line six as before. Let's rerun the debugger by running debug 50 space/buggy. Let's let it do its startup thing, which looks a little messy at first, but now we've highlighted line 8 again. I'm going to go ahead and step over this line because I do want to get an int. I'm going to type in three again. enter. But this time, instead of stepping over line 9 and just letting print column happen, this is where the debugger gets powerful. Let me step into line 9 and walk through the print column function itself line by line. So, let me go ahead and click not this button, which is the curved arrow over the dot, but the next one, which is the step into button. Click. And now you'll see that execution has jumped inside of print column and paused on line 14. At which point I can see at top left what the default value of I is. And this is some crazy garbage value because whatever bits are being used to store I's value have some random garbage from some previous use of that memory. But as soon as line 14 executes once, I bet I is going to take on a value of zero. So let's do that. I'm going to go ahead and click step over because I don't need to step into this because there's no other functions there. Step over it and immediately at top left I is now zero. Now line 16 is highlighted. Let's step over this. Okay. And notice in the terminal window, what do you see? The first of our hashes. Let's step over. Step over. Second hash. And I is now one. Step over. Step over. Now we see a third hash. And I is now two. Step over. Step over. Okay, there's the symptom of the bug. Four hashes and yet I is three. But wait a minute, this is going to draw my attention now to line 14 before I continue onward. Wait a minute. Three is of course less than or equal to three, which is why I got that fourth hash on the screen. So at the end of the day, like you still need to exercise some of your own human intellect to figure out and understand what's going on. But the value of this here debugger is that you can pause and work through things at your own pace and poke around inside of your own code and better understand what's happening as opposed to compiling the program, running it, and just now having to infer from the symptoms alone what the source of the problem might be. So that was a lot. Let me go ahead here and just let it continue to the end because I know what the problem is. Now I need to change the less than or equal to sign to a simple less than instead. Questions though on debug 50 or any of these steps. Yeah, &gt;&gt; I have two questions. &gt;&gt; Sure. &gt;&gt; Could you go over what the break point thing is? And then my second question was around the garbage. The second time you ran it, it still gave that same garbage value even though you had assigned to H. &gt;&gt; Correct. So in order of your questions, what again are these break points? The break point or the little red stop sign here just tells the debugger where to pause execution. So frankly, I didn't have to break pause execution at main. If I really care about debugging print column, I could have clicked down here instead and then it would have just run main automatically and only paused once print column gets called. So a break point is where your code will break, the point at which it will break. As for the garbage values, I'm tell it's I'm oversimplifying exactly what's going on inside of the computer's memory. and it's not necessarily using exactly the same memory as before, but the operating system will govern exactly how the memory is laid out. Um, this is actually a significant problem, long story short, in a lot of today's systems because it's not that interesting to me to know that there was 32,000, whatever that number is, or the negative number. But suppose that that revealed the password of some another program or function that had some information there. It seems all too easy with the debugger, let alone C, to actually poke around the computer's memory. And we're going to come back to that in a couple of weeks. But for now, it's a garbage value in so far as you didn't put the value there. It somehow got there on its own for now. Other questions? &gt;&gt; When you have a four, does the i= to one at the end of the four or the next? Correct. So the question is about the order of operations for a for loop. So the first time you go through a for loop the initialization happens the stuff before the first semicolon and the condition is actually checked the boolean expression. Then everything inside of the curly braces is executed. Then the incrementation or update happens which in this case is I++ and then the condition is again checked the boolean expression. The code is executed. The update happens. The condition again the code is updated. And so it starts to loop like this. The debugger's graphics are fairly simplistic and it just highlights the whole line without making super clear what's happening. But that's just the definition of a for loop. Good question. Others about debug 50 or print def. All right. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Can you change the position of I++ and height? Short answer, no. The first thing is the initialization, the variable you want to create and initialize. The second thing is the actual condition, the so-called boolean expression. The third thing is always the update. So, it must come in this order. What you're not seeing is that you can actually have multiple boolean expressions, you can have multiple initializations, you can have multiple updates, but we're keeping it simple for now. And this is canonical. All right. So to make clear, assuming that either print f or debug 50 helped me figure out where the illogic was in my thoughts, I now know that the fix here is to just go and change the less than or equal to to a simple less than. And if I run the program again, of course, it's going to give me the three bricks that I always wanted instead. But there's other techniques we can use too. So besides print f and debug, you might wonder why we have a 7ft duck behind me here. All of these little rubber ducks on the floor. So rubber duck debugging per week zero is actually a thing. Uh this was popularized in a book some years ago and the idea is that when you are facing some bug, some mistake in your program or you're just confused on some concept. There is anecdotal evidence to suggest that just talking out the problem with an inanimate object like a rubber duck on your desk is enough often for that proverbial like light bulb to go off over your head because you hear in your own words what confusion you're having, what illogical thoughts you're having, and you don't even need another human or TA or AI in the room to answer the problem for you. So in fact on the way out today at the end of class we've got hundreds of ducks and enough for everyone to take home with you if you'd like to use that as another debugging technique whether in CS50 or something else. But of course now in the age of AI you also have the AI powered virtual duck at cs50.ai and also in VS Code at cs50.dev which really is a mechanism for asking questions that you don't think you can solve on your own. So, it might be reasonable to ask the duck, "What does this error message mean?" If you're having trouble wrapping your mind around it, but it's less reasonable to say copy paste your code into the duck and say, "What's wrong with my code?" You should really be meeting the AI halfway. After all, what's the point of actually doing this or any other class is to develop that muscle memory, develop those mental models, get some practical skills. So try hard to walk that line between asking the duck too much versus deploying some of these same tools yourself. Print fbug 50, even a physical rubber duck on your desk before you resort to sort of escalating it to human like or duck help. All right, so with those tools added to one's toolkit, let's actually consider and reveal what's been going on underneath the hood since last week. So this was the mental model we proposed for last week whereby when you write source code in a language like C. It's not something that the computer itself understands natively because computers we saw only understand zeros and ones aka machine code. So the compiler is the program that we use to convert your source code to the machines code from C to zeros in one in this case. More generally a compiler is just a program that translates one language to another. And in this case we're going from source code to machine code. So let's consider what's really happening. And indeed, this is among the goals of this week is to take a look at a lower level so that when you encounter more interesting, more challenging problems, you'll understand from so-called first principles what the computer is actually doing and supposed to do. So you can deductively figure things out for yourself and generally not view computers as like magic or I don't know how this works. you'll have a fairly bottom-up sense of how everything works by terms end inside of any computer, laptop, desktop, phone, or the like these days. So, here's the simplest of programs that we wrote last week, even though there's a lot of syntactic complexity as we've seen. The goal is to get it to machine code. These here, zeros and ones. So, how has that been happening when you just run make since last week? Well, these are the two commands that we've typically run after creating a file like hello. C. We then compile it with make hello and then we run it with dot /hello. So let's give ourselves this starting point real quick just so that we have an example in mind of exactly what it is we're compiling. So let me go back to VS Code here. Close out buggy.c and let's create a new file just like last week called hello.c inside of which is our old friend standard io.h h int main void and then inside of this we'll keep it simple just printing out hello world which again is my source code in C. How do I now actually compile that? Well, of course I can go down to my terminal window make hello/hello and we're off and running. So it was a bit of a white lie for me to let you think though that last week the compiler itself is called make. Make is a command that literally makes your program. It makes it by compiling it. But make is not technically the compiler. If we really want to get nitpicky, the compiler you've been using is actually called clang for C language. And this is a very popular compiler, freely available, open source so to speak. You can even look at the code other humans wrote to create the compiler online. And what make is really doing for us is essentially automating this command. So all this time I could have just run clang spacehello.c. But the default file name from Clang the compiler weirdly and for historical reasons is not going to be hello as you would hope. It's going to be a.out for assembler output. And we don't do this in the first uh in week one of the class because like this just makes things unnecessarily complex that we're adding some random name that you just have to know to type. However, we can do this now as follows. Let me go back to VS Code here. And let me clear my terminal and type ls. And we'll see everything we've created thus far. Buggy. C, which when I compiled it, I got buggy. And hello.c, which I just wrote. And when I compiled it, I got hello. Let's do this command now manually, though. Let's use clang on hello. C, and hit enter. That two seems to work. But if I now type ls, you'll see a third program specifically called a.out, which happens to be the same as hello. It just is using the default name instead of my custom name, hello. But if I do dot slash a.out indeed that too will work. But the reason we don't do that certainly in the first week of the course is that things get a little annoying or sort of escalate quickly thereafter. So let me go ahead and change this program as we've done a few times already. Let me include cs50.h so that we get access to like get string. Let me do string name equals get string quote unquote what's your name question mark close quote. And then down here, just like before, let me add my percent s and add in my name. So, I did that super quickly, but it's the same program we wrote a few minutes ago, and it's the same one we wrote last week. What happens now, though, is as follows. If I now try to do clang hello C enter, I actually get an error message. This one perhaps more cryptic than most. Somehow or other, I have this error. Linker command failed with exit code one because of an undefined reference to get string. Now, in the past when we've seen undefined or really undeclared mentions of get string, the problem was just with missing this line. This line is clearly here. But the catch is I'm getting this error message now because when I run clang of hello.c, I'm just assuming that clang knows where to find the CS50 version of get string. And that is not the case. Technically, if I want the compiler to compile this code for me, what I'm actually going to have to do is this. Let me go back to uh my terminal window here, and I'm going to say clang hello. C, but I'm then going to specify -Lcs50, which is cryptic at first glance, but this is telling the compiler to link in the CS50 library so that it knows what the zeros and ones are that belong to the get string function. Long story short, if I hit enter now, the error message has gone away. If I type ls, I've still got a.out, but it's a new version thereof. And if I do dot / a.out, now I see the new behavior where I can type in my name and see hello, David. Now, this is getting a little stupid that I keep using a.out. We can change that as well. In fact, these commands, as we're starting to see, support what are called command line arguments. And a lot of the programs we've run already take command line arguments. When we run code space hello.c, the so-called command line argument to code is hello. C. When I run make hello, the command line argument to make is hello. In other words, the command line arguments to a program are all of the words you're typing in your terminal after the name of the program itself, whether it's make or whether it's code or anything else. So, this is to say what I just ran clang of hello. C-LCS50, I was passing in two command line arguments. Hello. C, which is the code I want to compile, and LCS50, which means use the CS50 library, please. But I can add another to the mix. I can actually do something like this. whereby I do clang- o hello hello then I can do hello c and then -lc cs50 enter. Now that too seems to work. And if I type ls I've got all the same programs as before. So let's go ahead and get rid of those to make clear what's going on. I'm going to remove a.out. I'm going to remove hello. And just for good measure I'll remove buggy as well. So that all I have left in this folder is source code. So if I type ls there's my two files. Let's do this again. clang- o hello hello c-lcs50 enter. Now if I type ls I don't see a.out anymore because apparently according to the documentation for clang the actual compiler if you pass d- o as a command line argument followed by another word of your choice you can name the program anything you want without having to resort to mv or clicking on it and typing a new name in manually. So if I now do /hello, I see the exact same version where it's just asking me for my name and then printing it out. But long story short, the whole point of this exercise is that like running commands like this quickly gets very tedious. You have to remember like the order in which to do it, what the command line argument. I mean, this is just stupid waste of time typically, certainly in week one of the course to have to memorize these kinds of magical commands to get things working. But for now, know that when you run make, it's essentially automating all of that for you and making it as simple semantically as make hello or make buggy. But what's really happening is the make command because of the way we've configured cs50.dev for you is doing all of this behind the scenes. And it's not that magical. This just means change the file name to hello when you compile it. This just means compile this code. And this just means use the CS50 library. like that's all. But that message about linking something in there's there's something juicy going on there such that make is in fact helping us sort of solve a whole bunch of problems when we compile and in fact let me propose that if we take a step back and look at some of the actual code that we're compiling. Let's consider like what we actually mean by compiling. Yes, it's the case that to compile your code means to go from source code to machine code. But technically there's a few more steps involved. Technically when you compile your code that's sort of become the industry term of art that really is referring to four separate processes all of which are happening in succession automatically but each of which is doing a different thing. So just once let's walk through these these several steps. So what is this pre-processing step? So consider this program here which we wrote uh in brief last week. We've got include standard io.h which is there because we want to be able to use print f ultimately. We've then got a prototype for this meow function. And the meow function does this. All it does is print out quote unquote meow followed by a new line. Takes no input, returns no return values. The main function now has a for loop. Iterates three times each time calling the meow function. And we saw this already earlier today. This line of code here, the so-called prototype is necessary because we need to tell the compiler that meow exists before we actually use it here, especially if I don't get around to implementing it until later. So this copy paste of that first line of code, a so-called prototype solve that problem. This is what the header files are essentially doing for us. Before I use print f down here, the compiler needs to know what it is, what its inputs are, what its outputs are. Turns out the prototype for print f is going to be in standard io.h. And that's what that line of code has been doing for us all this time. In fact, let's take a simpler example that we keep using here whereby I'm including CS50.h and standard io.h. And I'm using the CS50 get string function to get someone's name and put it in a variable called name and then I'm printing out hello, such and such. What's going on now when I pre-process this file by running make, which in turn runs clang? Well, the compiler finds on the server's hard drive the file called cs50.h H goes inside and essentially copies and pastes its contents into my own code. Meanwhile, such that we get the prototype there for get string. And we haven't seen this yet, but it stands to reason that all this time using print f, we've been passing in a prompt like what's your name? And we've been getting back a string. What's inside the parenthesis, recall, is the input. What's before the function name is the output, the so-called return value. What about standard io.h? It's in that file that print f's prototype is. So essentially what the compiler does when pre-processing this file is it finds standardio.h somewhere on the server's hard drive, goes inside and copy and pastes those relevant lines of code into my code as well. It's to avoid me having to do all of that myself, find the file, copy paste it, or manually type out the prototype. These pre-processor directives just automate all of that TDM. So what this effectively has at the top of my code after the files been pre-processed is all of those hash symbols followed by include are changed to contain the actual contents of those header files. Now the compiler knows what get string is all about and what print f is all about. That then is the pre-processing step. What is compiling technically mean? Compiling means taking that pre-processed code, which again looks a little something like this, and convert it into something called assembly code. And we won't spend much time in this class on assembly code, but this is how programmers used to write code. Before there was C, before there was Python and Java and all of these other modern languages, programmers were writing code like this. Before this existed, they were programming zeros and ones into the earliest of mainframe computers using punch cards and other technologies. Like literally sheets of paper with holes in them. Not very fun. Very tedious. So the world invented this. Also not very fun, very tedious. So the world invented C. Not that much fun. So the world invented Python and so forth. We continue to sort of evolve as a species with code. But the compiler technically takes your pre-processed source code and converts it into something that looks like this. Cryptic, and that's to be expected. But there are some familiar phrases. There's mention of main. There's mention of getstring. There's mention of print f. And there's a bunch of other things. Move and push and exor and call and these other commands here. These are the assembly instructions. Those are the lowest level instructions that the CPU inside of a computer understands. CPU is the central processing unit. The thing by Intel or AMD or Apple or other companies. Those are the lowest level commands that the actual hardware inside of the computer understand. It's just nice to be able to write words like main and for and uh print f than it would be to run these much more arcane commands that you'd have to look up in a manual. So compiling just takes CC code and makes it a lower level type of code called assembly. When I said a.out means assembler output, that's why inside of that file is essentially the output of an assembler. All right, we're almost there. What does it mean to assemble a program? which is step three of the compilation process. That means converting assembly code to the actual zeros and ones we keep talking about. So if the file is called hello C, when that file is assembled, the assembly code becomes the zeros and ones for your code in hello. C. But your code is not everything that composes your final program. Your code from hello. has to be combined with code from CS50's library from the standard IO library that other humans wrote. I and the team wrote the CS50 code. Other humans in the world wrote the print f code in standard IO. So essentially the fourth and final step is to link all of those zeros and ones together. Somewhere on the server there is not just the header file CS50.h and standard io.h but your code hello.c, our code cs50. C and the code that contains print def's own implementation. Bit of a white lie. It's technically not called standard io. C, but the point remains ultimately the same. So these files have already been compiled for you in advance. This is your code. What the assembly process does is it combines all of that into zeros and ones and then all three chunks of zeros and ones are linked together. So if you think back to when I tried compiling the code without -Lcs50, there was some mention of linker linking just means the computer did not know how to link your code with CS50's code because we were missing LCS50 which tells the compiler to go find it somewhere on the hard drive. And the final step then of linking is to combine all of those zeros and ones into one bigger blob of zeros and ones. And that's what's inside your hello program that you can execute. So long story short, these four steps are what's been happening ever since the start of last week. Pre-processing, compiling, assembly, and linking. But thankfully, the world of programmers generally just treats all four of these steps as what we know now as compiling. It's just a lot easier to say compile and not worry about those lower level details. But that might reveal better to you what all of these error messages mean when you see hints of this kind of terminology questions on any and all of that from here on out. We're going to go higher level than lower. Yeah. I I I don't get the part with the like when we're talking about com um when I think it's the assembly process when you basically convert it to zeros and ones. &gt;&gt; Um doesn't like across the multiple like the three different ones. Don't the zeros and one signify different things like one signify text and the other signify something else. How does the computer know like what part what 8 bit corresponds to which part? &gt;&gt; Really good question. How does the computer know which of those zeros and ones corresponds to data like numbers or strings of text or actual commands? We're going to come back to that in week four of the class. But long story short, what we just saw on the screen is a big blob of zeros and ones actually follow some pattern where the bits up top represent a certain functionality. The bits on the bottom represent something else and they're organized into patterns. So, long story short, we'll come back to that, but they follow conventions. It's not just a hot mess of like zeros and ones. &gt;&gt; Other questions? &gt;&gt; So, Preprocessing step is just replacing the hashtag. &gt;&gt; Correct. The pre-processing step goes into the header file and essentially copies and paste the contents of it into your own code so you don't have to waste time doing that manually yourself. Other &gt;&gt; Just curiosity when you're talking about the compiling step um how it converts it to assembly code and you're saying that the CPU understands all those commands. Is the CPU then converting that into Uh no the so when you compile your code you're going from the uh assembly code to the zeros and ones that sorry uh when you compile let me pull up the the chart again when you compile your code you're going from the C code to the assembly code and the patterns you get when you see the assembly code are specific to a certain CPU. So long story short, if you're designing software for iPhones or for Android devices or Macs or PCs, you're going to necessarily use a different compiler because given the same C code, you will get different assembly instructions in the output. And this is why you can't just take back in the day like a CD containing a program from a Mac and run it on a PC or vice versa because it's the wrong patterns of instructions. But the reason why we have all of these annoying layers of complexity is because one, four different people can now implement the notion of compiling. Someone can implement the pre-processor, someone can implement the compiler, the assembler, the linker, and you can actually collaborate by breaking things down into these quantized steps. But also you can do this step, this step, and then two different people can write compilers to actually write uh to output assembly code for like iPhones over here and Android devices over here. But all of us can still enjoy using the same language up here. So there's a lot of reasons for this complexity. Just understanding it is useful, but you're not going to need to use this sort of knowledge day today, but it's what enables so much of today's complexity nonetheless. All right, so a bit of a flourish now as to what we've been doing with compiling. Well, compiling is going ultimately from source code to machine code. Couldn't you just kind of reverse the process, right? If someone wrote really interesting software like Microsoft Word or Excel or something like that, well, when I buy it or download it, like I literally have a copy of all of those zeros and ones, couldn't I just kind of reverse this process and reverse engineer someone else's code by decompiling it? And this is genuinely a threat. And this comes up in matters of law and intellectual property because the zeros and ones have to be accessible to you and to your computer. So, it's not a great feeling if someone with enough time and enough savvy could sort of reinvent Microsoft Word by just figuring out what all those zeros and ones mean. However, it's sort of easier said than done to reverse engineer code from these zeros and ones. For instance, this pattern of bits on the screen here did what did we say last week? Silly. No normal person should be able to answer this, but I did say it before. These zeros and ones print what? &gt;&gt; It just prints out hello world. And I cannot glance at that and figure it out like off the top of my head. But if I know what architecture, what CPU this code has been compiled into and I pay attention in week four and know what the various layout of the zeros and ones are, I could painstakingly figure out what each of those patterns of zeros and one means by breaking them into chunks of 8 or 16 or 32 or 64, which are common units of measure that I alluded to last week. Now, that's going to take a crazy amount of time. And the sort of pre presumption is that if you are smart enough and capable enough and have enough free time to do that, it would probably take you less time to just implement Microsoft Word the normal way and just rebuild the software. It's going to take you more time to go in reverse than it would in the so-called forward direction. But there's other subtleties as well. Inside of this code is not only commands like print, functions like printf, but suppose that it contained a loop for instance to print meow meow meow. Well, we know already that you can use a for loop sometimes or you can use a while loop, but they're functionally equivalent. It's sort of a stylistic decision which one you use, whichever one you're more comfortable with, or maybe feels a little better designed, but you can't figure out from the zeros and ones whether or not it was a while loop or a for loop, because it just results in the same pattern of zeros and ones. It's just a programmer's choice. Which is to say, you can't even perfectly reverse engineer everything because it's not going to be obvious from the zeros and ones what the source code originally looked like. But again the bigger deal breaker is if you have that much time and energy and savvy just like reimplement Microsoft Word itself don't try to reverse the whole process which is going to be much more painstaking and timeconuming instead. Now this is not true for all languages and just as a teaser in a few weeks time when we talk about web programming and another language called JavaScript it turns out that JavaScript source code is actually sent from web servers to web browsers and you can look at the source code of any website on the internet harvard.edu edu, facebook.com, gmail.com, it's going to be there. So, not all languages, it turns out, are even compiled. Typically, sometimes the source code is just executed by the underlying computer. So, we're just scratching the surface of some of the implications of all this. In a little bit time, let's take a look further under the hood at the actual memory, solve some other problems, but I think it's now time for cheese it. So, let's go ahead and take a 10-minute break. Uh, snacks are now served. See you in 10. All right, we are back. And up until now when we've been writing code, recall that we have to specify like what type of value you want to put in a variable. Like that's why I had to go in and add string before the word name in my first bug today. But it turns out C, as we've kind of seen already, has a whole bunch of these data types. Um, I rattled these off last week. Bool, int, long, float, double, char, string. But we'll consider for a moment just how much space each of these things takes up and see if we can't help you see what the debugger was seeing earlier. That is what is where in memory. So, a bull, it turns out, actually takes up one bite, which is kind of stupid because technically a bool, true or false, really only needs one bit. It just turns out that it's more efficient and easier to just use a whole bite, eight bits, even though seven of them are effectively unused. So, a bool will take up one bite, even though it's just true and false. An int recall uses four bytes. So, if you want to count really high with an int, the highest you can go is roughly 4 billion, we've claimed, unless you want to represent negative numbers, in which case the highest is like 2 billion. because if you want to be able to count all the way down to negative two billion, you got to kind of split the difference. A long meanwhile is twice that. It uses eight bytes which is roughly nine quadrillion possibilities which is quite a few more than 4 billion. Um that is if you want to include negative numbers as well. Then we had floats which were real numbers with decimal points which speak to just how precise you can be with significant digits. A float is four bytes by default, but a double gives you twice as many bits to play with, which gets you get lets you be more precise. Even though at the end of the day, whether you're using floats or doubles, floating point imprecision, as we've seen, is a fundamental problem for scientific, financial, and other types of computing where precision is ever so important. A char meanwhile, at least as we've seen it, is a single bite using asy characters specifically. And then string I'll put as a question mark because a string totally depends on its length. If you're storing high, that's like one, two bytes. If you're storing hello, that's like five bytes and so forth. So, strings depend on how many characters you actually want to store inside of them. So, where does this go? Well, here is a picture of a a stick of memory uh a a dim so to speak, whereby on this uh stick of memory, which is slid into your computer, your laptop, your desktop, or some other device, there's all these little black chips that essentially contain lots of room for zeros and ones. it's somehow electronic, but inside of there are all of the zeros and ones that we can uh store data in. So, if we kind of zoom in on this, it stands to reason that for the sake of discussion, if this one chip represents like one gigabyte, 1 billion bytes, it stands to reason that we could slap some addresses on these bytes whereby we could say this is the first bite and this is the last bite or more precisely this is by 0 1 2 3 dot dot dot bite 1 billion. And it doesn't matter if it's top, down, left, right, or uh any other order. We're just talking about this conceptually at the moment. So in fact, let's go ahead and draw this really as a grid of memory, a sort of canvas that we can just use to store types of data like bools and ints and chars and floats and everything else. If we are going to use one bite to store like a char, well, you might use just these eight bits up here, one bite up here. If you want to store an int, well that's four. You might use all four of these bytes necessarily contiguous. You can't just choose random bits all over the place. When you have a four byte value like an int, they're all going to be contiguous back to back to back in memory like this. But if you got a long or a double, you might use eight bytes instead. So truly, when you store a value in memory, whether it's a little number or a big number, all you're doing is using some of the zeros and ones physically in the computer's hardware somewhere and letting it permute them, turn them on and off to represent that value you're trying to store. All right, so let's go ahead and abstract away from the hardware though and let's just start to think of this grid of memory uh sort of in zoomed in form and consider more at a lower level what is actually being stored inside of here. For instance, suppose that we've got some code like this containing three scores on like problem sets. You got a 72 on one of them, a 73 on another, and a 33 on the third. I've deliberately chosen our old friends 72 73 33 which recall spell high or together in the context of colors is like a shade of yellow just so that we're not adding some new random numbers to the mix. These are our old friends three integers. Well, let's use these in a program. Let me go over to VS Code here and let me create with code a program called scores.c. That's just going to let me quickly calculate my average score on my problem sets. I'm going to go ahead and include as we often do standard io.h at the top. I'm And then inside of my curly braces, I'm going to do exactly those sample lines of code. My first score uh was let's say a 72, my second score was 73, and my third score was 33. So I've declared three variables, one for each of my problem set scores. Now let's calculate the average. So print f quote unquote average colon just so I know what I'm printing. And now I'm going to go ahead and use maybe percent uh i back slashn. And then what I'm going to pass in is a bit of math. So to compute an average, it's just score 1 plus score 2 plus score 3 divided by three. And I put the scores the numerator in parenthesis just like in grade school like I need to do that operation first before doing the division. So just like math class semicolon at the end to finish my thought. Let's see how this goes. Make scores. enter dot slashcores and it would seem that my average across these three problem sets is 72 which I which is great but I don't think that's actually what I want here. What have I done wrong? It's unintentional. &gt;&gt; Yeah. I'm kind of being a little generous with myself here. I didn't really factor in my worst score. So that was accidental. So now let me do this correctly. make scores dot slashscores and now okay my average is 59 but I I beg to differ I'd like to quibble my score technically I think mathematically should really be 59 and a3 I'm kind of being cheated those that third of a point so what's going on here why am I only seeing 59 and not my full grade &gt;&gt; you're using so it's going to &gt;&gt; perfect because I'm using integers when I divide by three it's going to truncate everything after the decimal point which we touched on at the very end of week one, which is an issue with just truncation in general. So, one approach to fix this, I could change my percent I to percent F, which is the format code, it turns out, for a float, and that is what I want to print. So, let's see if that fix alone is enough. Make scores. Oops, it's not. I got ahead of myself there. And let me scroll up to the error. Format specifies double, but the argument has type int. Turns out you can use percent f for doubles as well. So, that's why I'm saying double, even though I intended a float in this case. So, there's a problem here. I the argument has type int even though I'm passing in percent f. You're seeing mention of percent d here which is an alternative to percent i. We typically encourage you to use percent i because i for integer but there is uh that is not the solution to this problem because I want my third of a point back. So how could I go about fixing this? Well the fundamental problem here is that I'm trying to format an integer as a float or even as a double. Well I need to convert these scores to floats instead. So, I could go in and change this to float, this to float, this to float, and heck, just to be super precise, I could add a 0 on the end of each of them just to make super clear these are floats. But there's another way. I could, for instance, uh, simply convert my denominator to 3.0 because it turns out so long as you involve like one float in your math, the whole thing is going to get promoted, so to speak, to floating point values instead of integers. I don't have to convert all of them. So I think now if I do make scores dot slashscores now ah there's my third of a percent uh the third of a point back. There's another way to do this just as an aside and we'll see this again down the line if you really want to stick with three cuz it's a little weird just semantically to divide by 3.0 like that's an implementation detail but you're truly computing an average of three things. You can technically cast the three to a float in parenthesis. You can specify the data type that you want to convert another data type to. And this too should make the compiler happy. Aha. Dot /cores. I get roughly the same answer. We're seeing some floatingoint imprecision though nonetheless. But that too would achieve the goal here. But short that's all just a function of um floating point arithmetic there. So what's going on now actually in the computer's memory? Let me revert back to the simpler one with just 0 there. And let me propose that we consider where these three things are in memory. Well, if we treat this as my grid or canvas of memory, who knows where they're going to end up? But for the sake of discussion, let's assume that 72 ended up in the top left of my computer's memory. I've drawn it to scale, so to speak, and that this score one variable is clearly taking up four bytes of memory, and it's an int. And that's typically how many bytes are used on systems. Technically, it depends on the exact system you're using, but nowadays it's pretty reasonable to assume that an integer will be 32 bits on most modern systems. Score 2 is probably over there. Score 3 is probably over there. So, I'm using 12 bytes total, four bytes for each of these values. All right, so that's really all that's going on underneath the hood. I don't have to worry about this. The compiler essentially figured out for me where to put all of these things in memory. But what really is in memory? Well, technically each of these variables if it's used if it's composed of 32 bits is really just a pattern of literally 32 zeros and ones. And I figured out the pattern here. I crammed them all into the space there. But you see here three patterns of 32 bits which collectively compose those numbers there. But let's consider design now in terms of my code. This gets the job done. It's not that bad or big of a deal for just calculating the average of three scores. But this should also start to rub you the wrong way. this week onward when it comes to design like this is correct especially now that I uh clamorred back my third of a point but this is bad design using the variables in this way why might you think &gt;&gt; you're going to have to type in each score manually assign variable individually &gt;&gt; yeah I'm going to have to type in each score manually with each passing week when I get the fourth problem set and the fifth I mean surely people who came before us came up with a better way to solve this problem than like manually create 10 variables, 20 variables, whatever it is by the end of the semester. It just feels a little sloppy. And indeed, that's often the the way to think about the quality of something that's designed. Think about the extreme. If you don't have three scores, but 30 or 300, is this really going to be the best way to do it? And if you feel like, no, no, there's got to be a better way, odds are there are. Certainly, if the language itself is well designed, so let's consider how else we might go about solving this. Well, it turns out we can treat our canvas of memory, that grid of bytes you into uh chunks of memory known as arrays. An array is a chunk of contiguous memory back to back to back whereby if you want to store three things, you ask the computer for a chunk of memory for three things. If you want 30, you ask for one chunk of size 30. If you want even more, you ask for a chunk of size 300. Chunk is not a term of art. I'm just using it to colloqually explain what an array actually is. It's a chunk or a block of memory that is back to back to back to back. So what does this mean in practice? Well, it means that we can introduce a little bit of new syntax in C. If I want to create one variable instead of three and certainly one variable instead of 30, I can use syntax like this. Hey compiler, give me a variable called scores plural. Give me room for three integers therein. So, it's a little bit of a weird syntax, but you specify the type of all of the values in the array. You specify the name of the array, scores in this case, and I pluralized it just semantically because it makes more sense than calling it score now. And then in square brackets, so to speak, you specify how many integers you want to put into that chunk of memory. So, this one line of code now will essentially give me 12 bytes automatically, but they'll all be referable by the name scores plural. So, let's go ahead and weave this into some code as follows. Let me go back to VS Code here, clear my terminal, and now let's just whip up the same kind of program, but get rid of these three independent variables. And instead, let's go ahead and just say int scores plural bracket three. Now, I need a way to initialize the three values. But this I can do too. It turns out that if I want to put three values in this, I just need slightly new syntax. I can say scores bracket 0 equals 2 72 scores bracket 1 equals 73 scores bracket 2 equals 33 so it's not all that different from having three variables but now I technically have one variable and I am indexing into it at different locations location 0 1 and two and it's zero because we always in computing start counting from zero so I do scores bracket zero is going to be my 72 problem set scores bracket one is my 73 problem set and scores bracket two was my weakest my uh 33 P sets. Now my syntax down here has to change because there are no more score one, score two, score three variables, but there are scores bracket zero plus scores bracket one plus. And notice what VS Code is trying to do for me. It's saving me some keystrokes. As I type in scores and type one single bracket, notice it finishes my thought for me and magically puts the cursor where I want it so I can put the two right there and generally save on keystrokes. But that has nothing to do with C. just has to do with VS Code trying to be now helpful. So I think now if I go down here and do make scores dot slashcores, we get the same answer, but it's arguably better designed because I now have one variable instead of three, let alone many more. And in fact, if I wanted to change the total number of scores, I can just change what's in that initial square bracket. So if we consider what's going on now, if we look at the computer's memory, it's the same exact layout, but there's no more three variable names. There's one scores bracket zero, scores bracket one, and scores bracket two. And notice here, ever more important, an array's values are indeed contiguous back to back to back. Now, the screen is only so wide. So, they kind of wrap around to the next row of bytes, but the computer has no notion of up, down, left, right. I mean, it's just a piece of hardware that's got lots of available that can be addressed from the first bite all the way down to the last bite. The wrapping is just a visual artifact on this here screen. All right. So if I've done this now, maybe we can make this program a little more dynamic than just hard- coding in my scores. Let me go in and add the CS50 header library so that we could also use for instance like get int and start getting these scores dynamically. So I could do get int and I could prompt the user for a score. I could use get int again and I can prompt the user for another pet set score. I can use get int a third time and prompt the user for a third such score. And then pretty much the rest of my code can stay the same. Let's do make scores again. Dot slashcores 72 73 33. And now my program's a little more interactive. Like this doesn't work for just my three scores. It could work for anyone scores in the class. Now this too hints of bad design. I like my introduction of the array because I now have one variable instead of three. But what now might rub you the wrong way among lines n 7, 8, and nine? Yeahive. &gt;&gt; It's repetitive. I mean, I typed it manually, but I might as well have just copied and pasted like literally the same thing. So, what's a candidate for fixing this? Like, what programming construct might clean this up? Yeah, &gt;&gt; yeah, we could use a for loop or a while loop or whatever, but a for loop would get the job done. And that's often my go-to. So, let's do that instead. Let's go under my declaration of the array and do four int i= 0, i less than 3, i ++, which we keep seeing again and again. Uh, now how do I index into the array at the right location? Well, here's where the square brackets are kind of powerful. I can just say my scores array at the location I should get an int from the user as follows. So now I'm using get int once inside of a loop, but because I keeps getting incremented as we've done many a time now for meowing and other goals, I'm putting the first one at location zero. Why? Because I is initialized to zero. I'm putting the second one at location one. Why? Because I'm going to plus+ or increment I on the next iteration, then the next iteration. So, this has the ultimate effect of putting these three scores at location zero, one, and two instead of me having to type all of that out manually. Now, I don't love how I've done this still. If we really want to nitpick, this solves the problem correctly, but it's kind of got a poor design decision still. It's got a a magic number as people say. What is the magic number here and why is it bad? Yeah, over here. &gt;&gt; Yeah, it was a little soft, but I think the number three is hardcoded in two places. We've got it on line six, which is the size of the array, and then again on line seven, which is how many times I want to iterate. But those are the exact same concepts, but it's on the honor system that I type the number three correctly both times. So, I think we can fix this a little better. I could do something like int n equals 3 and then I could use n here and then I could use n here so that now I only change it in one place. If your eyes are wandering to the bottom of the program, there's still a problem here because I've still hardcoded 0, one, and two, but we'll come back to that. But this is arguably a little better. But let's talk a little bit about style. Typically when you have a con when uh typically when you've got a a variable that should not change its value we saw last week that we should declare it as constant and the trick there is to literally just write const for short in front of the type of the variable and now it should not be changeable by you by a colleague a collaborator or the like but typically too by convention stylistically to make visually clear to another programmer that this is a constant it's convention also to capitalize constants so to actually use like a capital N here in all places just to make clear visually that there's something interesting about this variable and indeed it is a constant that cannot be changed. All right, with that refinement, I don't think we've really improved the program fundamentally. I think we're going to need to do a bit more work to do this really well. So, I'm going to do this a little quickly, but mostly to make the point that we can make this indeed more dynamic. So, let me hide my terminal window there. Let me go ahead now and get the scores as I already am as follows here. And let me go ahead and uh assume for the sake of time that we have a function that exists already called average and I simply want to pass in to that average function the scores whose average I want to calculate. So average does not exist off the shelf like I can't just use an existing library for it. I'm going to have to implement this thing myself. But how? All right. Well, let's go ahead and do this. At the top of my file, I'm going to go ahead and compute or define a function called average uh that takes in what? An array of numbers. So, this syntax is going to be a bit new, but the way I do this is int say array bracket zero or array sounds a little too generic. Let's just call it numbers for instance here. So that says my average function is going to take as an argument an array of numbers. This average function though should return a value too. And it should return what type of value from what we've seen thus far? A number, a float specifically. It could be int. But then I'm going to get short changed my third of a point potentially. So I think I wanted to return a float. Or if you really want precision, you could return a double just to be really nitpicky. But that seems excessive here. All right. Well, now inside of my average function, how can I calculate the average? Well, this is just kind of like a math thing. So, I could declare a variable called sum and set it equal to zero. I could then have a for loop inside of this function for int i gets zero, i less than, huh? Uh, I'm going to come back to this the number of numbers in the array. And then I'm going to do i ++. And then on each iteration, I'm going to do sum equals whatever the current sum is plus whatever is in the numbers array at that location. So I'm going a little quickly, but again, I'm just applying the same lesson learned. Numbers is my array. Numbers bracket i means go to the i location in there. But if my loop starts at zero, that means go to location zero and then one and then two. And heck, if there's more scores in this array, it's just going to keep going on up from there because of the plus+. But I hesitated here for a couple of reasons. So I put a to-do here, which is not a thing. That's a note to self. How far do I iterate? Well, if you've pro come into CS50 with programming before, you can usually just ask an array, aka a vector, what its length is in Java and in Python and the like. You can't do that in C. So if I want to know what the length is of this array, I've got to have the function tell me. So I'm going to additionally propose that this average function can't just take the array. It's also going to have to take another argument, a second input, for instance, called length that tells me how long it is. And then down here, which is where we started the story, when I use this so-called average function, I'm going to have to tell the average function by passing in n how many numbers are in that array, just because this is annoying that you have to pass in not only the array, but also its size separately. That's the way it's done in C. More recent languages have improved upon this. So you can just figure out what the length of the array is as we'll see in a few weeks in Python. All right, back to the average function at hand. I think we're almost there. This is a little unnecessarily verbose. Recall that we can tighten this up by just doing plus equals whatever is in numbers bracket I. That's just tightening it up. It's syntactic sugar, so to speak. And then the last thing I'm going to do in my average function is what? Actually calculate the average. So what is the average? It's just the numerator. like the sum of all of the scores divided by the total number of all of the scores. Well, I've got the sum. So, I think I just want to do sum divided by what to get the actual average now? &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Exactly. Sum divided by length will give me the average because the sum is the numerator effectively all of the scores added together and the denominator is the length. How many numbers were there actually? Now, I can't just write this math expression here. If this is going to be my function's return value, and we've done this once or twice before, I literally say in my average function, return this value. So, it hands back the work. I could use print f and just print it on the screen, but I don't want that visual side effect. I want to hand it back so that on line 23, I can simply calculate the average of those n scores and let print f use it as the value of that format code percent f. All right. Unfort uh I think we are in reasonably good shape. Let me cross my fingers now and hope I didn't screw this up. Make scores. Okay. Dot slashcores. How many do we want to do? So we'll do 72 73 33. Enter. And there is Oh, so close. Average. I've had a regression. I've made the same mistake again just in a different way. I think I saw your hand go up. Why am I getting 59 and I'm not getting my third of a point? &gt;&gt; Yeah, I in this return line on line 11. Right now, I'm again stupidly doing integer divided by integer. That will make us suffer from integer integer truncation because if you're returning an integer, there's no room for the decimal point or any numbers thereafter. So, how do we fix this? Well, I could change the sum to float. like that would be reasonable. So then I do a float divided by the length. I could do my casting trick like convert the float the length to a float just for the sake of floating point arithmetic. There's a bunch of ways to solve this but I think I'll go with this one. Now let me now do make scores again dot/score 72 73 33 and now I've got albeit with some imprecision I think enough precision certainly for like a college grade in this case 59.33 and so forth. Okay. So what are the things to actually care about here? So there's a decent amount of code here. Most of it is sort of stuff we've seen before, but the interesting parts I would propose are this. When you create your own function that takes an array as input, you have to take as input the length of the array. You're not going to be able to figure it out correctly. As in mo newer languages, you also need, of course, to pass in the array itself. How do you pass in an array? Well, when you're defining the function, you specify the type of values in the array. whatever you want to name the array inside of this function and then you use empty square brackets like this. You don't have to put n or some other number there. All you need to tell the compiler is that my average function is going to take some array of values specifically this many. You don't put it inside the square brackets there. Then when I use it now it's just the now familiar syntax when you want to index into your array that is go to location zero or one or two you just use square bracket notation here. But the array itself, recall, was actually created in Maine when I did this line of code here where I said, give me an array called scores, each of whose values is going to be an int, and I want this many of them. And so maybe the final flourish that I'll add here, just to be sort of nitpicky, is I keep saying that main should really go at the top. Fine, no big deal. Let me highlight my average function, move it to the bottom of my file just because, and then and only then I'll copy and paste that first line, the so-called prototype, so that Clang doesn't freak out by not knowing what the average function is. So in short, there's seemingly a bunch of complexity here, but all we're the only thing that's really new in this one example is this is how you pass to a function an array that already exists elsewhere, not by its name, but by with the square brackets there. Okay, questions on arrays or any of this new syntax? Yeah, &gt;&gt; a bit slow, but back when you did the whole like average thing, &gt;&gt; okay, &gt;&gt; you said that we could store it as a float &gt;&gt; and instead of saying 3.0 was a float, you just said because 3.0 is a float. How does it know it's not a double? &gt;&gt; Oh, uh, how does it know it's not a double? So, by default, if you just type a number like 3.0 zero into your code, it will be assumed to be a double just because um raw values, literal numbers with a decimal point will be treated by the compiler as doubles and be allocated 64 bits. &gt;&gt; So how come you still do percentage? &gt;&gt; Uh uh just because like the world did not need to create a new format code like percent D is not double percent D is decimal integer but don't worry about that. We tend not to talk about it too much in class. Percent I is integer. Percent F is float. But percent F is also double. And this is not consistent because what's a long percent L L I. What did I say last week? Percent LI gives you a long integer. It's just a mess. That's there's no good reason for this other than historical baggage. &gt;&gt; Thank you. &gt;&gt; Sure. I'm not sure if that's reassuring, but All right. So, um Okay. Let's use these this knowledge for like something useful now and actually tease apart what is uh how we can use these um these skills for good and to better understand what's going on inside of the computer as follows. Let me go over to our grid of memory and this time let's not store some numbers but let's store like these three lines of code these three variables. So three chars even though we you know where this is going like this is not good design because I got three stupidly named variables C1 C2 C3 but let's make a point first. The first variable's value is quote unquote H. Second is I. Third is exclamation point. Why though am I using single quotes suddenly instead of double quotes? &gt;&gt; It's a character. Chars are single quotes. Strings are double quotes. And we'll see the distinction why in a moment. So for instance, if this is my grid of memory and this program contains just three variables, each of them a char. Odds are they'll end up like this in memory. C1, C2, C3, HI, exclamation point. Assuming there's nothing else going on in my program, they're just going to end up being back to back to back in this way. even though it might not uh in in this way. So what does this really mean is going on? Well, let's go ahead and poke around. Let me go back to VS Code here. Let's close scores.c reopen my terminal and let's create a new program called high C and just do something playful. So let me include standard io.h at the top. Let me do int main void after that. And inside of my curly braces, let's just repeat this. C1 equals H in caps. Char C2 equals I in caps. and then char C3 equals exclamation point in cap uh in exclamation point. That's all. Now, let's actually poke around and see what's inside the computer's memory. So, I could do something like this. I could print f for instance, percent c percent back slashn and percent c turns out means character. So, what do I want to plug in? C1, C2, and C3 semicolon. So, let's go ahead and do this. Make high. enter dot /h high and voila, there's my hi exclamation point. There's no magic here. Like I'm literally just printing out three char variables. I can I don't need the spaces. If I want to get rid of those spaces between the word, I can remake this. Make high dot /h high. And now we're back in business. hi exclamation point. But here's where an understanding of types can give you a bit of power and sort of satiate some curiosity. What if I change my percent C to percent I? percent I percent i. So int int int. Well, turns out that a char is really just a number because it's an asky value from 0 to 255. So there's nothing stopping me from telling the compiler, don't print these as chars, print them as integers. So let's do make high dot /h high. Enter. And that's a little cryptic. It looks like it's saying 727,333, but no, let me add those spaces back in between each of those placeholders. make high again dot /hi there are our old friends 72 73 33 it is not necessary in this case to say int int int because the compiler is smart enough and print f is smart enough that if you hand it a value that happens to be a char it knows already it's going to be an integer essentially so you don't even need to bother explicitly casting it this way we're essentially implicitly casting it to an integer by using those format codes as such. All right, so that just proves that what I've claimed is the case, that there is this equivalence between characters and numbers is actually the case inside of the computer's memory. So even though you're storing hi exclamation point, technically you're storing three patterns of eight bits each that give you these decimal numbers 72, 73, and 33 or specifically these patterns here. All right, then what is a string? And this is where things get a little more interesting. string as we've used it is like a whole word or a phrase or when we started class today like a whole paragraph of text. So that's multiple values. Now why is that interesting for us potentially? Well, let's go ahead and write one line of code as a string. So here for instance is one line of code with a string. Let's go ahead and put that into my program. So I'm going to go back to VS Code here and clear my terminal. And I'm going to go ahead and delete all of this code here for a moment. And I'm going to do something like this. String s equals quote unquote high with excl uh with double quotes now. And now just like in week one, I'm going to print out percent s back slashn and print out the value of s per earlier because string is technically one of our training wheels for just a few weeks. I'm going to additionally include cs50.h at the top so that the compiler knows about what this word is string. All right, let's go into the terminal. make high dot /h high enter and we're back in business printing that out now as an entire string. Well, what's going on inside of the computer's memory this time? Well, I still have hi exclamation point, but it's a string now. Well, it turns out the way that's going to be laid out in the computer's memory is exactly like before. There's no mention of C1, C2, C3 because those variables don't exist. There's just one variable S, but it's referring to three bytes of memory, it would seem. hi exclamation point. And you can kind of see where this is going. Like a string, as a spoiler, turns out is actually just what an array. &gt;&gt; It's just going to be an array of characters. Hence the the dots we're trying to connect today. So at the moment though, this is a single variable s a string. The value of which is hi exclamation point. But you know what? If it is in fact an array, I bet we can start playing around with our new square bracket notation and see as much in our actual code. So in fact, let me go ahead and do this in VS Code. Now let's not use percent S. Let's use percent C, percent C, and percent C three times. Then instead of just S, let's print it out like it is an array. S bracket zero, S bracket 1, S bracket 2. Let's go back to VS Code. Uh my terminal in VS Code, make high dot slhigh. and nothing has changed, but I'm printing it out now one character at a time because I understand what's going on underneath the hood. In this case, I can actually see these values. Now, let's go ahead and change the percent C to percent I and add a space just so it's easier to read. Percent i space percent i space. I don't need my casts in parenthesis because print f is smart enough to do this for me. Make high again dot /h high. There again is my 72 733. However, that came from the mere fact that I put in double quotes hi exclamation point. So, what's really happening here is it seems that a string is indeed just an array of characters. But how does the computer know when doing percent s know what to actually print? In other words, it stands to reason that eventually if I've got more variables, more code, there's going to be other stuff in the computer's memory. Why does print f know when using percent s to stop here and not just keep printing characters that are over here? Especially if I did have more variables and more stuff in memory. Well, let's take a look at what's just past the end of this array. Let's go back to VS Code. And now let's get a little crazy and add in a fourth percent I. And even though this shouldn't exist, let's do S bracket three, which even though it's the number three, it's the fourth location, but hi exclamation point is only three values. So, let's look one location past the end of this array. Make high dot slashh high. Interesting. It seems, and maybe it's just luck, good or bad, that the fourth bite in the computer's memory seems to be a zero. Well, that's actually very much by design. And it turns out if we look a little further by convention what the compiler will do for us automatically is terminate that is end any string we put in double quotes with a pattern of 8 zero bits. More succinctly it's just the number zero because if you do out the math you've got eight zeros it gives you zero in decimal or more technically the way it's typically written is this because it's not like the number zero that we want to see on the screen. back slashz0 similar to back slashn is sort of a special escape character. This just means literally 8 zero bits not the number zero that you might see in a phone number or something like that. So even though we said string s equals quote unquote high with an exclamation point seemingly three characters, how many bytes does a string of length three actually seem to take up in memory? It's actually going to be four. Then this happens automatically. That's what the double quotes are doing for you. They're telling the compiler, "This is not just a single character. This is a sequence of characters. Please be sure to terminate it for me automatically with a special pattern of 8 bits." And that special pattern of 8 zits actually has a name. It's the so-called null character or null for short. The null character is just a bite of zero bits and it represents the end of a string. You've actually seen it before if super briefly two weeks ago. Here was our ASKI chart and we focused mostly on like this column here and this column here and then we looked at the exclamation point over here. But all this time over here asky character zero is null n which just means that's how you pronounce all eight zero bits. It's been there this whole time. So why is it done this way? Well, how is the computer actually printing something out in memory? Well, it needs to know where to stop. Print F is pretty stupid. Odds are inside of print f there's just a loop that starts printing the first character, the next character, the next character, and it's looking for the end of the string. Why? Well, consider what might happen. Suppose you've got a program that has not just one string, but two. For instance, two strings like this. So, in fact, let me go back to VS Code here, clear my terminal, and let's just make this program a little more interesting for a moment. String t equals quote unquote by, for instance. And then down here, let's do two print fs. percent s back slashn and print out s print f percent s back slashn print out t. Now to be clear, percent s means string placeholder. T and s are just also the names of the variables. There's no percent t that we want to use here. All right, let me go down to my terminal make high and voila, I get high and by just like you would have expected last week. But what's going on inside of the computer's memory? Well, in so far I asked I have asked it to create two variables s and t like this. Odds are what's happening in the computer's memory is high is ending up here aka s t because there's nothing else in this program is probably going to end up here b exclamation point but it wraps on this particular screen. T is taking up 1 2 3 4 five bytes total just as high is taking up four bytes total because the compiler is automatically adding for me the back slashzero the null character to make clear to other functions where this string ends. So what does this mean in real terms and why is it zero? Well, why is it zero? Like h just because like at the end of the day all we have is bits. We've got eight bits to work with for chars. You got to pick some pattern. We could have chosen all ones. We could have chosen all zeros. We could have chosen something arbitrary. A bunch of humans in a room years ago decided eight zeros will mean the null character. That's the special character we will use to terminate strings in this way. Well, what does that mean with our new syntax? Well, it means we could poke around with strings as well. So, even though that first variable is S and that second one is T, you could technically poke around and access S brackets 0 and 1 and 2 and 3. t bracket 0 1 2 3 and four and so forth. So, in fact, if I wanted to dive in deeply there and actually see that, well, let me go ahead and do this. Uh, back in VS Code here, let me make a refinement here. I've now got, uh, my two strings here. Um, I could go and, for instance, down here, just like before, percent C, percent C, percent C, percent C, percent C, percent C, percent C. And if I then do s bracket zero, uh, s bracket 1, s bracket 2, whoops, two, and then down here, t bracket zero, t bracket 1, t bracket 2, t bracket three, and I'm doing that only because the word by is longer than the word high. If I do make high, same principles work even in this context here. But let's add an interesting twist just because if I have these values in memory here uh as follows. Well, it's kind if I've got two words in memory, I could use them in an array too. Instead of having like s and t or word one and word two, I can actually put strings in an array, too. So, let's go ahead and do this. Let me go back to VS Code. And just for fun now, let's go ahead and do this. Give me an array called words that's going to fit two strings. Then in the first words, words bracket zero, put hi. Then in words bracket one, put by. The only thing new here is that I'm making an array of strings now instead of an array of ins. But all of the syntax is exactly the same. How can I go about printing these things? Well, just as before, I can do print f percent s back slashn and print out words bracket zero. Then I can do print f quote unquote s back slashn words bracket one. And again, I'm just sort of applying the same simple syntax that we saw before. SLHigh again of the sixth version of this program, right? I'm just sort of jumping through syntactically to demonstrate that these are just different lenses through which to look at the exact same idea. And while a normal person would not do this, we could think about what's really going on in memory with arrays of words when those words themselves are arrays of characters. because a word is just a string. So this code here gives us something like this in memory in that program a moment ago. This is words bracket zero. This is words bracket one. The only thing that's different is I'm not calling them sn. I've given them one name with two locations 0 and one. Well, if each of these values is itself a string, well, you said earlier that a string is just an array. So we can actually think of these two strings even though the syntax is getting a little crazy using two sets of square bracket notation where I can index into my array of words and then index into the individual letters of that word by just using more square brackets. And again, this is just to demonstrate a point, not because a normal person would do this. But if I go back to VS Code, instead of printing out these two strings, why don't I do something like this? Print f quote unquote percent C percent C percent C back slashn. Then let's print out the first word, but the first character therein. Let's print out the first word, but the second character therein, the first word, but the third character therein. And even though I'm saying third and second and first, it's 2, 1, and zero respectively because we start counting at zero. And then lastly here, we can print out the second word. Percent C, percent C, percent C, percent C, back slashn, then words bracket. How do I get to the second word in this array? Words bracket one, the first character they're in. Words bracket one, the second character they're in. Words bracket one, the third character they're in. words bracket one the last character therein and again I'm this is just to demonstrate a point but if I do make high now dot slashh high we have full control over everything that's going on if you now do agree and understand that an array can be indexed into square bracket notation as can a string because a string is itself just an array strings are arrays for today's purposes then questions on any and all of these tricks. No. All right. Yeah. In front. How do you like that? &gt;&gt; How do you establish or create an array? Well, in the context of this program, if I go back to VS Code, line six here gives me an array of size two, an array of two strings, if you will. The previous example we were playing with, which was my scores, uh, whoops, wrong program, wrong file. If I open up scores C as before, this line here, line nine, gives me an array of n integers. So, that is what establishes or creates the array in memory. You specify a name, the size, and the type. That's all. And the only thing that's new today again is the square bracket notation, which in this context creates an array of that size. But once it exists, you can then access that chunk of memory by using square brackets as well. Other questions on arrays? Yeah, in front. all the values in the array as you declare it or do you need to go in index by index to declare? &gt;&gt; Good question. Do you need to go index by index to put things inside of an array? Short answer, no. So, let me open up again scores.c from before and what I could have done in an earlier version of my program would be something like this. I could have done 72 73 33. And I deliberately didn't show this because I didn't want to add too much complexity, but you can use curly braces in this new way and initialize the array in one line. And in that case, you don't even need to specify the size because the compiler is not an idiot. It can figure out that if you've got three numbers on the right, it knows that it only needs three elements on the left to put them into. But let me undo that and leave it just as I did. But short answer, yes. You can statically initialize an array if you know all of the values up front and not when using get int. All right. So, if you're on board with the idea that all a string is is an array and that array is always null terminated, we can now use that knowledge to like solve some simple problems and problems that others have already solved before us. So, let me go ahead and close that file in VS Code. Let me go ahead and open up another program here called length.c. And let's just play around with the length of strings as follows. Let me include the CS50 library at the top. Let me include standard io after that. Let me do int main void after that. And then inside of main, let's prompt the user for their name by using get string and just say name colon today. And then after that, let's go ahead and figure out the length of the person's name. Like d- avid, I should get the answer of five. And ke ly, we should get the answer of five. And hopefully for a longer or shorter name, we'll get the correct answer as well. So, how can I go about counting the number