flip over to in just a moment the actual Scratch website whereby I'm going to have on my screen in just a moment that same user interface once I've logged in that via which I can actually write some code of my own. Let me go ahead and zoom in on the screen a little bit here and let's make the simplest of these programs first. Maybe a program that simply says hello world. Now at a glance it's kind of overwhelming how many puzzle pieces there are. And honestly, even over 20 years, I've never used them all. And MIT occasionally adds to it. But the point is that they're colorcoded to resemble the type of functionality that they offer. And also, it's meant to be the sort of thing where you can just kind of scroll through and get a visual sense of like what you could do and then figure out how you might assemble these puzzle pieces together. So, I'm going to go under this yellow or orangish category here to begin with. So, there exists in the world of Scratch not quite the same jargon that I'm using now. functions and conditionals and loops. That's more of the programmer's way. This is more of the child-friendly way, but it's really the same idea. Under events, you have puzzle pieces that represent things that can happen while the world is running. So, for instance, the first one here is sort of the canonical when the green flag is clicked. Why is that relevant? Well, in the two-dimensional world that Scratch lives in, there's a stop sign, which means stop, and there's a green flag, which means go. So, I can therefore drag one of these puzzle pieces over here so that when I click that green flag, the cat will in fact do something for me. Doesn't really matter where I drop it, so long as it's somewhere in the middle here. I'm going to go ahead and let go. Now, I want the look of the cat to change. I want to see like a cartoon speech bubble come out for now. So, I'm going to go under looks here. And there's a bunch of different ways to say things and think things. I'm going to keep it simple and just drag this one here. And now notice when I get close enough to that first puzzle piece, they're sort of magnetic and they want to snap together. So I can just let go and boom, because they're a similar shape, they will lock together automatically. And notice too, if I zoom in here, the white oval, which by default says hello, is actually editable by me because it turns out that some functions can take arguments or more generally inputs that influence their behavior. So, if I kind of click or double click on this, I can change it to the more canonical hello world or hello David or hello whatever I want the message to be. I'm going to go ahead and zoom out. And now over here at top right, notice that I can very simply click the green flag. And I'll have written my first program in Scratch. I clicked the green flag, it said go. And now notice it's sort of stuck on that because I never said stop saying go. But that's where I can click the red stop sign and sort of get the cat back to where I want it. So think about for just a moment what it is we just did. So at the one hand we have a very obvious puzzle piece that says say and it said something but it really is a function and that function does take an input represented by the white oval here otherwise known as an argument or a parameter. But what this really is is just an input to the function. And so we can map even this simple simple scratch program onto our model of problem solving before with an addition of what we'll call moving forward a side effect. A side effect in a computer program is often something that happens visually on the screen or maybe audibly out of a speaker. It's something that just kind of happens as a result of you using a function like a speech bubble appearing on the screen. So here more generally is what we claimed it represents the solving of a problem. And let's just consider what the input is. The input to this problem say something on the screen is this white oval here that I typed in. Hello world. The algorithm, the step-by-step instructions are not something really I wrote like our friends at MIT implemented that purple say block. So someone there knows how to get the cat to say something out of its uh comical mouth. So the algorithm implemented in code is really equivalent to the say function. So a function is just a piece of functionality implemented in code which in turn implements an algorithm. So algorithm is sort of the concept and the function is actually the incarnation of it in code. What's the output? Well, hopefully it's this side effect seeing the speech bubble come out of the cat's mouth like this. All right, so that's one such program, but it's always going to play and look the same. What if I actually want to prompt the human for their actual name? Well, let me go back to the puzzle pieces here. Let me go ahead and throw this whole thing away. Okay. And if you want to delete blocks, you can either rightclick or control-click and choose from a menu. Or you can just drag them there and sort of let go and they'll disappear. I'm going to go back in and get another uh another event block, even though I could have reused that same one. I'm going to go ahead and go under sensing now. And if I zoom in over here, you'll see a whole bunch of things like I can sense distance and colors. But more pragmatically, I can use this function in blue, ask something, and then wait for the answer. And what's different about this puzzle piece is that it too is yes a function. It too takes an argument, but instead of having an immediate side effect like displaying something on the screen, it's essentially inside of the computer going to hand me back the response. It's going to return a value, so to speak. And a return value is something that the code can see, but the human can't. A side effect is something the human sees, but a return value is something only the computer sees. It's like the computer is handing me back the user's input. So, how does this work? We'll notice, and this is a bit strange. This isn't usually how variables work, but Scratch 2 supports variables, and that was a word I used quickly at the very start when we were making the chatbot. A variable like in math, X, Y, or Z, just store some value, but it doesn't have to store a number. In code, it can store like a human name. So, what's going to happen when I use this puzzle piece is that once the human types in their name and hits enter, MIT, or really Scratch is going to store the answer, the so-called return value in a variable that's designed to be called answer. But, as we'll see, you can make your own variables down the line if you want and call them anything you want. But, let me go ahead and zoom out. Let me drag this over here. I'm going to use the default question, what's your name? But I could certainly change the text there. And let me go under looks again. Let me go ahead and grab the say block and let me go ahead and say just for consistency like hello, okay? And now let me go under maybe sensing I want to say how do I want to say this answer. Well, notice this. The shapes are important. This too is an oval even though it's not white but that's just because it's not editable. It's going to be handed to me by the ask function. Let me zoom out and grab a second say block like this. And notice it will magnetically clip together. I don't want to say hello again. So, I could delete that. But now it's still the same shape even though it's a little smaller. Let me go back to sensing. And notice what can happen here. When you have values like words inside of a so-called variable, you can use those instead of manual input at your keyboard. And notice it too wants to magnetically snap into place. It'll grow to fit that variable because the shape is the same. And now let's do this. Let me click the green flag at right. I'm seeing quote unquote what's your name? I'm getting a text box this time, like on a web page for instance. Let me type in my name and watch closely what comes out of the cat's mouth as soon as I click the check mark or hit enter. Huh. Okay, I got my name right, but let me do it once more. Let me stop and start davvid. Enter. No, it didn't work. Let me try one other. Maybe it's my name. Let's try Kelly. Enter. What's missing? Obviously, the the hello. There's a bug, a mistake in this program. But is there like what explains this? Even if you've never programmed before, intuitively, what could explain why I'm not seeing hello? &gt;&gt; Exactly. It's on two different lines. So, it's doing one after the other. So, it is happening. It's just you and I is the slowest things in the room are just not seeing it in time because it's happening so darn fast. Because my computer is so, you know, so new and so fast, it's happening, but way too quickly. So, how can we solve this? So we can solve this in a few different ways. And this is where in Scratch at least for problems at zero when wherein you'll have an opportunity to play around with this. I can scroll around here and okay under control I see something like weight. So I can just kind of slow things down. And now notice too if you hover over the middle of two blocks if it's the right shape it'll just snap into the middle too. Or you can just so you know kind of drag things away to magnetically separate them. But this might solve this. So let me hit stop and then start davvid. Enter. Hello, David. All right, that was a little Let's do like maybe two seconds to see it again. Green flag dab ID. Enter. Hello, David. All right, it's working better. It's sort of more correct because I'm seeing the hello and the David, but kind of stupid, right, to see one and then the other. Wouldn't it be nice to say it all in one breath, so to speak? Well, here's where we can maybe compose some ideas. So, let me get rid of this weight and the additional block. Let's confine ourselves to just one say block. But let me go down to operations where we haven't been before. And this is interesting. There's this bigger oval here that says join two things like apple and banana. And those are just random placeholder words that you can override with anything you want. But they're both ovals and white, which means I can edit them. So let me go ahead and do this. Let me drag this on top of the say block. And this is just going to therefore uh override the hello I put there. Now I don't want to say apple or banana, but I do want to say and I then want to say my name. Okay, so now I can go back to sensing, go back to answer, drag and drop this here. That'll snap into place. And let me zoom in. Now what I've done is take a function and on top of it I've nested another function, the join function that takes two arguments or inputs and presumably joins them together as per its name. So let's see what this does for us. Let me click stop and start. I'll type in David enter. And it's so close. Now, this is just kind of an aesthetic bug. What have I done wrong here? There's no space. So, it looks a little wrong, but that's an easy fix. I just need to literally go into the hello block after the comma, hit the space bar, so that now when I stop and start again and type in David, now I see something that's closer to the grammar we might typically expect syntactically here. All right. So, let's model this after what we just saw earlier. We've now introduced a so-called return value. And this return value is something we can then use in the way we want. It's not happening immediately like the speech bubble. It's clearly being passed to me in some way that I can use to plug in somewhere else like into that join block. So if we consider the role of these variables playing, let's consider the picture now as follows. If the input now to the first function, the ask block is what's your name? Quote unquote, that's indeed being fed into the ask block. And the result this time is not a speech bubble. It's not some immediate visual side effect. It is the answer itself stored in a so-called variable as represented by this blue oval. Meanwhile, what I want to do is combine that answer with some text I came up with in advance by kind of stacking these things together. Now, visually in Scratch, you're stacking them on top, but it's really that you're passing one into the other into the other because much like math when you have the parenthesis and you're supposed to do what's inside the parenthesis and then work your way out. Same idea here. You want to join hello and answer together. And whatever that output is, that then becomes the input to the say block, which like in math is outside of the join block itself. So pictorially, it might now look like this. There's two inputs to this story. Hello, comma, space, and the answer variable. The puzzle piece in question is join. Its goal in life had better be to give me the full phrase that I want. Hello, David. Let's shift everything over now because that output is about to become the input to the say block which itself will now have the so-called side effect. And so this too is what programming and in turn what computer science is about is composing with the solutions to smaller problems solutions to bigger problems using those component pieces. And that's what each of these puzzle pieces represents is a smaller problem that someone else or maybe even you has already solved. Now, we can kind of spice things up here. If I go back to Scratch's interface, we don't have to use just the puzzle piece here. I can do something like this. Let me go ahead and drag these apart and get rid of the say block down here. Just for fun, there's all these extensions that you can add over the internet to your own Scratch environment. And if I go to like text to speech down here, I can, for instance, do uh a speak block instead of a say block colored here in green. I can now reconnect the join block in here. And if we could raise the volume just a little bit. Let me stop the old version, start the new version, type in my name, and hear what Scratch actually sounds like. &gt;&gt; Hello, David. &gt;&gt; Okay, not very cat-like, but we can kind of waste some time on this by like dragging the set voice to box. And I can put this anywhere I want above the speak block. So, I'm just going to put it here, even though I've already asked a question. Maybe kitten sounds appropriate. Let's try again. Dav &gt;&gt; meow meow. &gt;&gt; Okay. And then let's see uh giant little creepier. Here we go. DAV ID. And lastly, &gt;&gt; hello David. &gt;&gt; All right. Little ransomlike instead. All right. So, that's just some additional puzzle pieces, but really just the same idea, but I like that we've introduced some sound. So, let's do this. Let me go ahead and throw away a lot of those puzzle pieces, leave ourselves with just the when green flag clicked, and play around with some other building blocks that we've seen already thus far. Let me go ahead, for instance, under sound, and let's make the cow actually meow. So, it turns out Scratch being a cat by default comes with some sounds by default like meowing. So, if we go ahead and click the green flag after programming this program, let's hear what he sounds like now. Okay, kind of cute. And if you want it scratched to meow twice, you can just play the game again. And a third time. All right, but that's going to get a little tedious as cute as it is. So, I can solve that. Let's just grab three of the puzzle pieces and just drag them together and let them connect. And now click the green flag. All right. Doesn't it gets less cute quickly, but maybe we can slow it down so that the cat doesn't sound so so hungry. Maybe let me go under uh let's see under control. Let's grab one of those. Wait one second and maybe plop a couple of these in the middle here. That might help things. And now click the green flag. Okay. Still a little hungry, but let's see if we change it to two. And then I change it to two down here in both places. Let's play it again. Okay, cuter maybe, but now I'm venturing into badly programmed territory. This is correct. If my goal is to get the cat to meow three times, pausing in between. Sorry, three times pausing in between. What is bad about this code? Even if you've never programmed before, though. Yeah, in the middle. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I literally had to repeat myself three times. Essentially copy pasting. And frankly, I could have been really lazy and I could rightclick or control-click and I could have chosen duplicate. But generally, when you copy paste code or when you duplicate puzzle pieces, probably doing something wrong. Why? It's solving the problem correctly, but it's not well designed. Even if for only because when I change the number of seconds, now I had to change it in two places. So, I had one initially, then I had to change it to two. And if you just imagine in your mind's eye having not like six puzzle pieces but 60 or 600 or 6,000, you're going to screw up eventually if it's on you to remember to change something here and here and here and here. Like you're going to mess up. It's better to keep things simple and ideally centralized by factoring out common functionality. And clearly playing sound and waiting is something I'm doing at least twice if not a third time here as well. So how can we do this better? Well, remember this thing loops. Maybe we can just do something a little more cycllically. So I tell the computer to do something once, but I tell it how many times to do that al together. So notice here by coincidence under control I have a repeat block which doesn't say loop, but that's certainly the right semantics. Let me go ahead and drag the repeat block in and I'll change the 10 to three just for consistency here. I'm going to go back to sound. I'm going to go ahead and play sound meow until done just as before. And just so it's not meowing too fast under control, I'm going to grab a weight one second and keep it inside the loop. And notice that the loop here is sort of hugging these puzzle pieces by growing to fill however many pieces I actually cram in there. So now if I click play, the effect is going to be the same, but it's arguably not only correct, but also well designed because now if I want to change the weight, change it in one place. If I want to change the total number of times, change it in one place. So I've modularized the code and made it better designed in this case. But now this is silly because even though I want the cat to meow, it feels like any program in which I want this cat to meow, I have to make these same puzzle pieces and connect them together. Wouldn't it be nice to invent the notion of meowing once and then actually have a puzzle piece called meow? So when I want the cat to meow, it will just meow. Well, I can do that, too. Let me scroll down to my blocks here in pink. I'm going to click make a block and I'm going to literally make a new puzzle piece that MIT didn't think of called meow. And I'm going to go ahead and click okay. Now I have in my code area here a define block which literally means define meow as follows. So how am I going to do this? Well, I'm going to propose that meowing just means to play the sound meow until done and then wait 1 second. And notice now I have nothing inside my actual program which begins when I click the green flag. But notice at top left because I made a block called meow, I now have access to one that I can drag and drop. So now I can drag me into this loop. And per my comment about abstracting the lower level implementation details away, I'm going to sort of unnecessarily dramatically just move that out of the way. It still exists. I didn't delete it, but now out of sight, out of mind. Now, if you agree with me that meow means for the cat to make a sound, we've abstracted away what it means mechanically for the cat to say that sound. And so, we now have our own puzzle piece that I can just now use forever because I invented the meow block already. Now, I can do one better than this. It would be nice if I could just tell the meow block how many times I want it to meow because then I don't need to waste time using loops either myself. So, let me do this. Let me zoom out and let me go back to my define block. Let me rightclick or control-click and just edit it. Or I could delete it and start over, but I'll just edit it. And specifically, let me say, you know what, let's add an input, otherwise known as an argument, to this meow block. And we'll call it maybe n for the number of times I want it to meow. And just to be super clear, I'm going to add a label, which has no functional impact, but it just helps me remember what this does. So, I'm going to say meow end time, so that when I see the puzzle piece, I know what the N actually represents. If I now click okay, my puzzle piece looks a little different at top left. Now it has the white oval into which I can type or drag input. Notice down here in the define block, I now see that same input called N. So what I can do now is this. Let me go under control. Glag, drag the repeat block here. And I have to do a little switcheroo. Let me disconnect this. Plug it inside of the repeat block. Reconnect all of this. And I don't want 10. And heck, I don't even want three down here anymore. I can drag this input because it's the right shape. And now declare that meowing n times means to repeat the following n times. Play sound meow until done. Wait one second and keep doing that n total times. If I now zoom out and scroll up, notice that my usage of this puzzle piece has changed such that I don't actually need the repeat block anymore. I can disconnect this. And heck, I can actually rightclick and uh control-click and delete it. just use this under the green flag. Change this to a three. And now I have the essence of this meowing program. The implementation details are out of sight, out of mind. Once they're correct, I don't need to worry about them again. And this is exactly how Scratch itself works. I have no idea how MIT implemented the weight block or the repeat block. Heck, there's a forever block and there's a few others, but I don't need to know or care because they've implemented those building blocks that I can then implement myself. I don't necessarily know how to build a whole chatbot, but on top of OpenAI's API, this web-based service, I can implement my own chatbot because they've done the heavy lift of actually implementing that for me. Well, let's do just a few more examples here. Let's bring the cat all the more to life. Let me throw away the meowing. Let me open up under when green flag clicked. How about that forever block that we just glimpsed? Let me go ahead and now add to the mix what we called earlier conditionals which allow us to ask questions and decide whether or not we should do something. So under this, let me go ahead and under forever say if the following is true. Well, what boolean expression do I want to ask? Well, let's implement how about this program and we'll figure out if it works. Uh under sensing, I'm going to grab this uh very angled puzzle piece called touching mouse pointer. that is the cursor and only if that question has a yes answer do I want to play the sound meow until done. So let me zoom in here and in English what is this going to implement really just describe what this program does less arcanely as the code itself. Yeahouse &gt;&gt; yeah if you move the mouse over the cat it will make noise. So, it's kind of like implementing petting a cat, if you will. So, let me zoom out, click the green flag, and notice nothing's happening yet, but notice my puzzle pieces are highlighted in yellow because it is in fact still running because it's doing something forever. And it's constantly checking if I'm touching the mouse pointer. And if so, it's like I just pet the cat. Now, it stopped until I move the cursor again. Now, it stopped. If I leave it there, it's going to keep meowing because it's going to be stuck in this loop forever. But it's correct in so far as I'm petting the cat. Let me do this though. Let me make a mistake this time. Let me forget about the forever and just do this. And you might think this is correct. Let me click the green flag now. Let me pet the cat. And like nothing's actually working here. Why though logically? Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. The program's so darn fast. It already ran through the sequence. And at the moment in time when I clicked the rear flag, no, I was not touching the mouse pointer. And so it was too late by the time I actually moved the cursor there. But by using the forever block, which I did correctly the first time, this ensures that Scratch is constantly checking the answer to that question. So if and when I do pet the cat, it will actually detect as much. All right, about a few final examples before you're on your way building some of your own first programs with these building blocks. Let me go ahead and open up a program that I wrote in advance in fact about 20 years ago whereby let me pull this up whereby we have in this example a program I wrote called Oscar time and this was the result of our first assignment in this class whereby when MIT was implementing Scratch for the very first time we needed to implement our very own Scratch program as well. I'm going to go ahead and full screen it here. The goal is to drag as much falling trash as you can to Oscar's trash can before his song ends. For which one volunteer would be handy here. Okay. I saw your hand go up quickly in blue. Yeah. Come on up. All right. So, you're playing for a stress ball here if we will. At one at some point, I'm going to talk over what you're actually playing just so that we can point out what it is we're trying to glean from this program. And I'll stipulate this probably took me like 8 12 hours. And as you'll soon see, the song starts to drive you nuts after a while because I was trying to synchronize everything in the game to a childhood song with which you might be familiar. Let me go ahead and say hello if you'd like to introduce yourself. &gt;&gt; Oh, hello. So, I'm Han and uh I'm a first year student. I'm pretty excited for this class. &gt;&gt; All right, welcome. Well, here is Oscar time. If you want to go ahead and take control of the keyboard, all you'll need to do is drag and drop trash that falls from the sky into the trash can. Papa heat. And it's around this point in the game where the novelty starts to wear off because there's like three more minutes of this game where more and more stuff starts to fall from the sky. So as Han, as you continue to play, I'm going to cut over here. You keep playing. Let's consider how I implemented this whereby we'll start at the beginning. The very first thing I did when implementing Oscar time honestly was the easy part. Like I found a lamp post that looked a little something like this and I made the so-called costume for the whole stage. And that was it. The game didn't do anything. You couldn't play anything. You put your green flag, nothing happened. But then I figured out how to turn the scratch cat, otherwise known more generally as a sprite, into a trash can instead. And so the trash can, meanwhile, is clearly animated because I realized that, oh, I can give sprites like the cat different costumes. So, I can make the cat not only look like a trash can, but if I want its lid to go up, well, that's just another costume. And if I want to see Oscar popping out, that's just a third costume. And so, I made my own simplistic animation. And you can kind of see it. It's very jittery step by step by step by creating the illusion of animation by really just having a few different images or costumes on Oscar. Now, I hope you appreciate how much effort went involved into timing each of these pieces of trash with the specific mention of that type of piece of trash in the music. Okay. 20 years later, still clinging. So, you're doing amazing, by the way. How do we get the trash to fall in the first place? Well, at the very beginning of the game, the trash just started falling from some random location. What does it mean for trash to fall from the sky? Oh, big climax here. You got a lot of trash on the ground to pick up. There we go. And your final score is a big round of applause if we could for Han. Thank you. Thank you. So just to be clear now, let's decompose this fairly involved program that took me a lot of hours to make into its component parts. So this is just a sprite. And I figured out eventually how to change its costume, change its costume, change its costume to simulate some kind of animation. And I also realized that oh, I don't need to just have one sprite or one cat or trash can. You can create a second sprite, a third sprite, and many more. So I just told the sprite to go to a random location at Y equals 180 and X equals something. I think I restricted X to be in this region, which is why the trash never falls from over here. I just did a little bit of math based on that cartisian plane that we saw a slide of earlier. And then I probably had a loop that told the trash to move a pixel, move a pixel, move a pixel down, down, down, down until it eventually hits the bottom and therefore just stops. So we can actually see this step by step. And this is representative of how even for something like your first problem said in CS50 and with Scratch specifically, you might build some of the same. So, I'm going to go back into uh CS50 Studio for today, which is linked on the courses website, which has a few different versions of this and other programs called Oscar 0ero through Oscar 4, where zero is the simplest. And truly, I meant it when I look inside this program to see my code. Like, this was it. There was no code because all I did was put the sprite on the screen and change it from a cat to a trash can. And I added a costume uh a costume for the stage, so to speak, so that the lamp post would be fixated there. If I then go to the next version of code, version one, so to speak, then I had code that did this. Now, notice there's a few things going on here. At bottom left, you'll see of course the trash can and then at top right the trash. Here are the corresponding sprites down here. So, when Oscar is clicked on here, the trash can, you see the code I wrote, the puzzle pieces I dragged for Oscar. And in a moment, when we click on trash, you'll see the code I wrote or the puzzle pieces I wrote dragged and dropped for the trash piece specifically. So what does Oscar do? Well, I first switch his costume to Oscar 1, which I assume is this the closed trash can. Then forever Oscar does the following. If Oscar's touching the mouse pointer, then change the costume to Oscar 2. Otherwise, that is if not touching the mouse pointer, change the costume to Oscar 1. Well, what's the implication? Anytime I move the cursor over the trash can, the lid just pops up, which was exactly the animation I wanted to achieve. Meanwhile, if we do this and click the green flag, you can see that in action, even for this simple version. If I move the cursor over Oscar, we have the beginnings of a game, even though there's no score, there's no music or anything else, but I've solved one of my problems. Meanwhile, if I click on the trash piece here, and then you'll see no code has been written for it yet. So, we move on to Oscar version two and see inside it. In Oscar version two, when I click on trash, ah, now there's some juicy stuff happening here. And in fact, this trash sprite has two programs or scripts associated with it. And that's fine. Each of them starts with when green flag clicked, which means the piece of trash will do two things at once essentially in parallel. The first thing it will do is we'll set drag mode to dragable. And that's just a scratch thing that lets you actually move the sprites by clicking on them, making them dragable. Then it goes to a random X location between 0 and 240. So yeah, that must be what I did from the middle all the way to the right. And I set y always to 180, which is why the trash always comes from the sky from the very top. Then I said forever change your y by negative one. And here's where it's useful to know what 180 is, 240 is, and so forth. Because if I want the trash to go down, so to speak, that's changing its Y by a pixel by a pixel by a pixel. And thankfully MIT implemented it such that if the trash tries to go off the screen, it will just stop automatically, even if it's inside of a forever block, lest you lose control over the sprites altogether. But in parallel, what's happening is this. Also, when the green flag is clicked, uh the trash piece is doing this too forever. If touching Oscar, what's it doing in blue here? Sort of teleporting away. Now, to your eye, hopefully it looks like it's going into the trash can. But what does that mean to go into the trash can? Well, I just put it back into the sky as though a new piece of trash is falling. So even though you saw one piece of trash, two, three, four, and so forth, it's the same sprite just acting that out again and again. So here, if I click play on this program, you'll see that it starts falling one pixel at a time. Because it's draggable, I can sort of pull it away and move it over to the trash can like that. And as soon as I do, it seems to go in, but really it just teleported to a different X location. Still at Y= 180. Again, it's not much of a game yet. There's no score. There's no music or anything, but let's go to Oscar 3 now. And in Oscar 3, if we scroll over to the trash, even more is happening here. In so far as I realized, you know what? There was kind of a inefficiency before. Previously, I had these two programs or scripts synonym whereby they both went to the top by going to 0 to 240 for X and then 180 for Y. And if you noticed, I used that here and I used that down here in both programs. Now that too is kind of stupid because I literally copied and pasted the same code. So if I ever want to change that design, I have to change it in two places and I already proposed that we frown upon that. So what did I do in this version? I just created my own block and I decided to call my own function go to top. What does it mean to go to the top? Pick a random x between those values and fixate on y= 180 initially. Now in both of those programs which are otherwise identical, I just say what I mean. Go to top. Go to top. And if I really wanted to, I could drag this out of the way and never think about it again because now that functionality exists. So correct, but arguably better designed. I've now factored out commonality so as to use and reuse my code as well. So let's go up to Oscar version 4 now. And in Oscar time version 4, the trash can does a little something more whereby what have I added to this mix even though we haven't dragged this puzzle piece together before? Yeah. What's new? &gt;&gt; Score. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So, it turns out on the left here, there's a variables category, which is goes beyond the answer variable that we just automatically get from the ask block. You can create your own variables X, Y, Z. But in computer and programming, it's best to name things, not silly simple words like X, Y, and Z, but full-fledged words that say what they are, like score. So, I'm setting a score variable to zero. And then any time the trash is touching Oscar before it teleports away to the top, I change the score by one. That is increment the score by one. And what Scratch does automatically for me is it puts a little billboard up here showing me the current score. So if I now play this game once more, the score is going to start at zero. But if I drag this trash over here and even let it fall in, as soon as it touches, the score goes to one. And now if I click and drag again, the score is going to as soon as it touches Oscar going to go to two and so forth. And you saw in the final flourish with Han playing that once you had the sound and other pieces of trash, which are just really other sprites and I just had wait like a minute, wait two minutes so that the trumpet would fall at the right time. I've broken down a fairly involved program into these basic building blocks. And when you too write your own program, that's exactly how you should approach it. Even if you have these grand aspirations to do this or that, start by the simple problems and figure out what bites can I uh bite off in order to make progress. Baby steps if you will to the final solution. Well, let's look at one other set of examples before we have one final volunteer to come up. And as you'll soon see, it's tradition in CS50 to end the first class with cake. So, in a moment, cake will be served out in the transcept. And please feel free to come up and say hi and ask questions if you'd like to. Let me go ahead and open up though a series of building blocks here via which we can make so-called Ivy's hardest game which is one implemented by one of your predecessors, a former classmate from CS50. So here we have a whole bunch of puzzle pieces written by your classmates but let me go ahead and zoom in on this screen. You'll see that this harbored crest is my sprite. So it's not a cat, it's not a trash can, it's a harbored crest and it exists in a very simple two-dimensional world with two walls next to it. If I click on the green flag, notice that with my hands here, I can go up, I can go down, I can go left, and I can go right. But if I try going too far right, I get stuck on the wall. If I go too far left, I get stuck on the wall. Well, it's the sort of the beginning of any animation or game. But how do I do this? Well, let me go up here and propose that the first thing the Harvard sprite is doing is it's going to the middle 0 comma 0. And it's then forever listening for the keyboard and feeling for walls. Now those are functions I implemented myself to kind of describe what I wanted the program to do. And let's do the shorter one first. What does it mean to feel for the walls? Just to ask the question, if you're touching the left wall, change your x by one. If you're touching the right wall, change your x by negative one. Why have I defined touching walls in this weirdly mathematical way? Yeah. &gt;&gt; Sure. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Like counteracts the movement. Otherwise, you're like not moving. &gt;&gt; Exactly. Because if I've gone so far right that I'm touching the right wall, well, I'm already kind of on top of the wall a little bit. So, I effectively want the sprite to bounce off of it. And the easiest way to do that is just to say back up one pixel as though you can't go any further. And same for the left wall. Meanwhile, let me scroll over to the second script or program that's running in parallel. It's a little longer, but it's not more complicated. What does it mean to listen for keyboard? Well, just check. If the key up arrow is pressed, change Y by one. Arrow go up. Else if the key down arrow is pressed, then change Y by negative 1. Key right arrow is pressed, change X by one, and so forth. So again, this is where the math and the numbers are useful because it gives you a world in which to live. Up, down, left, right. deconstructed into some simple arithmetic values. All right, so the net result is that we have a crest living in this world. Well, let's add a bit of competition here. And in the second version of this game, let me go ahead and full screen it again. Click play. And now we'll see sort of an enemy bouncing back and forth autonomously. So there's no one playing except me. I'm controlling Harvard. Yale is bouncing on its own. And nothing bad's going to happen if it hits me. But it does seem to be autonomous. So how is this working? Well, if it's doing this forever, there's probably a forever loop involved. So, let's see inside here. Let's click not on Harvard, but on the Yale sprite. And sure enough, if we focus on this for a moment, we'll see that the first thing Yale does is go to 0 comma 0. It points in direction 90°, which just gives you a sense of whether you're facing left or right or wherever. And then it forever does the following. If it's touching the left wall or touching the right wall, I was a little clever this time, if I may. I just kind of turn around 180 degrees, which effectively bounces me back in the opposite direction. Otherwise, I go ahead and no matter what just move one step. And this is why Yale is always moving back and forth. So, a quick question. If I wanted to speed up Yale and make this beginning of a game harder, what would I do? &gt;&gt; Yeah. So, let's have it move like 10 steps at a time, right? This looks like a much harder game, if you will, like level 10 now, because it's just moving so much faster. All right. Well, let's try a third version of this that adds another ingredient. Let me full screen this and click play. And now you'll see the even smarter MIT homing in on me by following my actual movements. So, this is sort of like boss level material now. And it's just going to follow me. So, how is this working? Well, it's kind of a common game paradigm, but what does this mean? Well, let's see inside here. Let's click on MIT sprite. It's pretty darn easy. go to some random position just to make it a little interesting lest MIT always start in the center and then forever point towards the Harvard logo outline which is the name the former student gave to the costume that the sprite is wearing that looks like a Harvard crest and then move one step. So coral layer of the previous question, how do we make the game harder and MIT even faster? Well, we can change this to be like 10 steps and now you'll see MIT is a little twitchy because this is kind of a visual bug. Let me make it full screen. Why is this visual glitch happening? It's literally doing what I told it to do. It just looks stupid. Yeah. Say again. &gt;&gt; Yeah. It's moving so fast that it's sort of going 10 pixels this way, but then I kind of it kind of overshot me. So then it's doubling back to follow me again, and it's doubling back this way. And because these are such big footsteps, if you will, it just has this visual effect of twitching back and forth. So, we might have to throttle that back a bit and make it five or two or three instead of 10 because that's clearly not desirable gaming behavior here. All right. Well, let's go ahead and do this. Let's put them all together just as your former classmate did when submitting this actual homework. Uh, the game will conclude hopefully in an amazing climax where you've won the game. So, we need someone ideally with really good hand eye coordination to play this final game here. Yeah, your hand went up first, I think. Okay, come on up. Big round of applause because this is a lot of pressure to end. All right. So, if you win the game, cake will be served. If you don't win the game, there will be no cake. &gt;&gt; Okay. But introduce yourself in the meantime. &gt;&gt; Hi, I'm Jenny Pan, freshman at Hollis and I'm actually a CS major or concentration. &gt;&gt; Nice to meet you. Head to the keyboard here. This now is the combination of all of those building blocks and even more aka Ivy's hardest game. You will be in control just as I would of the harbored crest. And the goal is to make it to the exit, which is this gentleman on the right here. And you'll see there's multiple levels where it's each level gets a little harder. All right, here we go. Heat. All right, this is CS50 and this is week one, our second week together. And you'll recall that last week, week zero, we focused on Scratch. Ultimately, this graphical programming language by which you can drag and drop puzzle pieces that interlock together only if it makes logical sense to do so. And many of you had actually probably played with that in like middle school or even prior at some point. But for our purposes, the goals of Scratch were to give us sort of a mental model for some fundamental constructs that we're going to see again and again today in C in a few weeks in Python and even thereafter. And those include things like functions and return variables and arguments and variables and loops and conditionals and more. And so even if today feels like a bit of a fire hose, such as that picture here, appreciate that a lot of today's ideas are exactly the same as last week's ideas, it's just that the syntax is going to change. It's going to look a little different. It's going to look a little scarier. It's going to be harder to sort of memorize, except with practice will come that muscle memory, but the ideas ultimately are going to be the same. And indeed, this is, if unfamiliar, uh MIT down the road has a tradition of hacks whereby students once a year do something fairly crazy. And at this point, they happen to connect an actual working uh drinking fountain to an actual fire hydrant. And the sign there, very pixelated, says, "Getting an education from MIT is like trying to drink from a fire hose." And that's indeed how computer science, how programming, how CS50 will sometimes feel, but realize that what's going to be ultimately most important is not where you uh feel you are day after day, but where 3 months from now you feel that you are relative to last week alone. so-called week zero. So, let's look back at what week zero looked like. It looked a little something like this. The simplest of programs by which we get get that cat to say hello world. Today, that same code is going to start to look a little like this, which was a glimpse we gave you last week. But this time, I've deliberately colorcoded it to try to send the message that whereas in Scratch, we had this yellowish puzzle piece that sort of kicked things off that didn't really do anything itself, but it got the program started, whereas the real work was done in purple here. Same is going to be true today whereby I'm going to wave my hands for a little bit of time at this yellowish code on the screen. But what's really going to have the most effect is this same purple line here and the white text within. And we'll break down what all of these lines mean over the next couple of weeks. But sometimes we'll wave our hand at details if we feel it's a little unnecessary at this point in the story. And in fact, let me get rid of the color coding for now. And we'll see that this is the kind of code in a language called C we're going to start playing with and using today and for the next several weeks. And indeed, it's representative of what we're going to generally call source code. So source code is what programmers write. It's what you write. It's what you wrote, albeit by dragging and dropping puzzle pieces. This week onward, you're going to start using your keyboard all the more. And you're going to write source code. So this is code that we humans can understand with some training and with some practice. But of course per last week, what language do computers ultimately understand? Only &gt;&gt; so binary zeros and ones. And so you and I, yes, can write code starting today in a form that looks a little something like this, which admittedly might look a little arcane and cryptic, but it's certainly better than a whole bunch of zeros and ones. But we're going to write in source code. But the machines that we write code for ultimately only understand these here, zeros and ones, which may very well say hello world, but we're going to call this moving forward machine code. So machine code is what the the computers understand. Only the zeros and ones. Source code is what you and I understand and actually write. So it stands to reason that we're going to have to somehow translate one to the other from source code to machine code. And I alluded to this ever so briefly last week, but we're going to use this same mental model whereby the source code we write might be the input to some problem. The output we want there from is going to be the machine code. So what we're going to equip you with today inside of this proverbial black box is a special piece of software that takes source code as input, produces machine code as output, and that type of program is called a compiler. And there's bunches of difference of compilers in the world. We're going to have you use one of the most popular ones, but it's simply a piece of software that someone else wrote that converts one language to another. Source code, for instance, in a language called C to machine code, the zeros and ones that our Macs, PCs, phones, and other devices actually understand. So, where are we going to do this and how are we going to do this? So, I promised last week that we'd introduce you to this year tool, which I used briefly at the very start of class to whip up that chatbot. We're going to use it though not for Python this week, but indeed for a different language, C. And indeed, this tool, Visual Studio Code, or VS Code for short, is super popular in industry. This is what real programmers, so to speak, are using all of the time nowadays. There's absolutely alternatives. If some of you have programmed before, you might have used or experienced different tools, but this is a very common tool that you'll see even after CS50. And in fact, it's something that ultimately you can install for free on your own Macs and PCs so that by the end of the course, you're completely independent of CS50 and any CS50 related tools. But what we have done for the very start of the class is essentially provided you with a cloud-based version of this tool. So all you need is a web browser on any Mac or PC or the like so that everything's pre-installed for you, preconfigured for you, and you don't have to deal with the stupid technical support headaches at the start of the term because it should just work. But by the end of the term, once you're a little more comfortable with technology and with code in particular, you can absolutely offboard yourself from this tool. Install it, download it on your own Mac and PC and have pretty much the exact same environment completely under your control. So, starting today, you're going to see an interface that looks quite like this quite often. And we used this same interface last week ever so briefly. Moving forward, here's where we're going to write code. At top right is where one or more code tabs are going to appear, similar to any tabbed uh environment that you might use. Here, for instance, is just a screenshot of the first file we'll create today called hello.c. The reason it's called hello.c is because it's in a language called C, as we soon shall see. No pun intended. Meanwhile, the code here happens to be colorcoded, not quite in the same way as you saw before cuz I manually made it look more like scratch blocks. But among the features that VS Code and other programming environments provide is something called syntax highlighting whereby you don't worry about or even think about these colors. But as you write out code in a recognized language, tools like VS Code will just color code different parts of your code for you just to make different features jump out. And we'll see what those features are over the course of today. But you'll also spend a good amount of time, as I briefly did last week, down here in the bottom right of your screen, the so-called terminal window, which is going to be where you run commands for compiling code and writing code. And in fact, as we'll see today, you're going to start using your mouse and clicking a little bit less. You're going to start using your keyboard and typing a bit more. And ultimately, even though if at first that might feel like a step backwards to sort of not use something that's so user friendly, the reality is most every programmer tends to find themselves ultimately much more productive, much more powerful using the keyboard more often, more quickly than say a traditional mouse or trackpad would allow. Meanwhile, we'll see some somewhat familiar features here at left, like this is where you'll see the files and folders that will create over time. At far left here is going to be an activity bar, which is essentially a modern form of a menu via which you can open and close things and access other features. For my purposes, I'll generally hide this part here. I'll generally hide this part here so that when we're together, we're focusing almost entirely on code and commands, but I'm just typing some quick keyboard shortcuts to simplify my own user interface in that way. So, with all that said, just some terminology. So this whole collective environment that I'm describing here is generally what's known as a graphical user interface. Why? Well, it's an interface for users that's graphical in nature with icons and buttons and the like. Shorthand notation for this is guey, GUI for short. But within this graphical user interface, as promised, is going to be that terminal window at bottom right where I promised we would be typing most of our commands. And just to give you a bit more jargon in computing, that's generally known as a command line interface or CLI for short, whereby you're typing commands into that interface instead. And the world of computing software is essentially divided into gueies and CLIs and sometimes a piece of software might have one of each as well. But without further ado, why don't we go ahead and focus entirely first on this here program, which I dare say is the simplest program you can write in a language like C and see how we can actually compile and run it together. So, I'm going to go over to VS Code here where I've hidden my file explorer with all the icons and I've hidden my activity bar so that only do I have room for tabs of code and the command prompt at the bottom. I'm calling this a command prompt because it's at this dollar sign where I'm going to run some of my commands. And it's a dollar sign by convention. It has nothing to do with currency. It's just a computing convention. Some systems will use a carrot symbol. Some systems will use a greater than symbol rather or something else. But it just means type your commands here. The first such command I'm going to type is this code hello. C with a single space in between. I've not used any spaces in the name of the file. I've not capitalized any aspect of the file just because this is convention. Unlike your Mac or PC where you might be in the habit of naming files with spaces and capitalization, generally you'll make your life simpler by just using lowercase and no spaces at all. As soon as I hit enter, what you'll see is that a brand new tab appears called hello C with a cursor blinking on line one. And this is essentially VS code waiting for me now to type the first line of my code. Notice though that the command is complete there by whereby I am have another cursor here which I've give if I give click in the terminal window and give foreground to it my cursor might blink there instead that just means I can type another command when I am ready. So let's go ahead and whip up this code and I've done this many times so I can type it fairly quickly but in this tab I'm going to do include standard io.h h so to speak int main void then inside of so-called curly braces indenting therein by four spaces I'm going to say print f quote unquote hello world back slashn close quote semicolon and voila I've written my first program in C in a class like this no need to write down each and every line of code that I write in fact on the course's website will be copies of everything that we've done as well as excerpts there from in the courses notes but you're welcome but not expected to follow along in real time with what I am typing here. So that's it. Like I've written my very first program in C. If I had done this on an actual Mac or PC without a command line interface, I might have a new icon on my desktop, so to speak, called hello. And ideally, I could double click on that or tap on it and run the program. But because I'm in this specific programming environment that has a mix of a guey and a CLI, I actually need to click down in my terminal window. And I need to now compile this program first because at this point in time, it exists only as source code. So to do this, I'm going to compile my code by very aptly saying make space hello. And I'm pronouncing the space, but literally I hit the space bar. Make space hello as it sort of implies semantically will make a program called hello. Notice I have not said hello.c C again because the compiler, let's call it make for now, even though that's a bit of a white lie, is going to infer that if I want to make a program called hello, it's going to automatically look for a file called hello. C in this case. So, a bit of magic. Enter. And remarkably, anytime you don't see any output at a command like this, that's probably a good thing. Generally speaking, when you see output when compiling your code, you have done something wrong. Or in this case, I might have done something wrong. But no output is good because what I can now do and this is a bit cryptic. I can run this program not by double clicking or tapping anywhere but by doing dot slashh hello with no spaces. And this is a bit weird but what the dot slash means is that a having just made a program called hello that program is going to end up in my current folder. It's somewhere in the cloud. Yes, more on that in a bit. But the program called hello is just somewhere in my current folder. When I say dot slash, that's like saying go into the current folder and run the program therein called hello specifically. Now, as I often do, I'll cross my fingers, hope that I didn't mess this up in any way, and I should see in a second hello world indeed printed onto the screen. And so, just to recap those then commands. One, I ran code hello.c, which is a VS code specific thing. Code short for VS Code just creates a new file called hello.c. And then I'm on my way with my own keyboard. Make hello compiles that source code into machine code thereby creating a new file called hello. And to run that program hello, I type this strange command dot /hello. But this is a paradigm. No matter what you call your programs, we're going to see again and again and again. So even if you've not done something quite like this, it will very quickly get familiar. Yes. Questions. How when you say make hello, how like how does how do you how does the computer know like what part of the code to what part of the code is ascribed to hello? &gt;&gt; Good question. When I say make hello, how does the computer know what part of the code is ascribed to this program hello? It literally is going to take the entire contents of hello.c and turn them somehow into a program. &gt;&gt; And does it have to be like named hello? &gt;&gt; Does it have to be named hello? No. I could have called it goodbye or anything more my first program C. anything at all so long as I change these words here accordingly. &gt;&gt; But it has to like it needs to be like from the same thing like it needs to &gt;&gt; Yes. &gt;&gt; have like green C and make green or whatever. &gt;&gt; Exactly. If you change the name there you need to change your commands accordingly. Other questions on these here steps? No. All right. So let's tease apart what it is we just did and like why this code works in the way that it does. Well, to recap, in Scratch, we had a program like this. When the green flag was clicked, we wanted to say hello world onto the screen. The code that corresponds to that is roughly here. And indeed, notice that the yellowish or oranges code lines up with the when green flag clicked. The purple code here lines up with the say block. And the white code inside of here roughly corresponds to what was in the white oval that we kept using again and again last week. So, let's do more of a onetoone correspondence. And these slides are deliberately designed to give you again that sort of mental model of taking same ideas from last week and just changing the syntax this week onward. So when we have a function like this thing here and recall that a function is just an action or verb. It sort of accomplishes a small piece of work in code in C specifically you're going to type of course not a purple puzzle piece but you're going to say the word print. Well, more technically print f where the f as we'll soon see means format the printed output because this is more powerful than just printing some raw text alone. Then you can have parentheses open and close left and right. And notice that it's no accident that MIT MIT chose an oval for their input to functions because it roughly looks like the start of a parenthesis and parenthesis on left and right. Meanwhile, what goes inside of the parenthesis in the corresponding C code? Well, at the end of the day, minimally hello, world because that's literally what we want to print to the screen. But in C, unlike in Scratch, there's a bit of overhead, a bit of additional syntax that you just got to deal with to make clear to the computer what you want to print. In particular, you're going to have to surround everything you want to print with double quotes to make clear that hello is not some special function or variable or something else. It's hello world is the English phrase that you want to print. So double quote here, double quote there means here's the beginning and the end of what I want to print. You're also curiously going to put a backslash in most cases at the end of the word or words you want to print. We'll take that away in a moment and see what it does. And then lastly, and perhaps most annoyingly in programming circles, you have to finish your thought with a semicolon. Much like in English, you would finish most sentences with a period instead. And the thing in the thing about programming is with C in particular, if you mess up almost any of these details I just rattled off, something's going to go wrong. And so you're in good company. The very first program you try to write or try to compile, odds are it might not work correctly because you'll develop over time the muscle memory for spotting all of these seemingly minor and actually minor details, but that do matter to the computer. All right. So if you're familiar of course with the notation in like mathematics of functions like a function in code is really the same idea as a function in math whereby the function f takes some input for instance x and generally produces some output. So if you're coming more from that background realize that what we're really doing here is roughly the same but in code recall that we can have different types of output. So if this is our grand mental model and say we've got a function as inside of this black box that takes arguments, that is to say as its inputs, it can sometimes have side effects. And recall that side effects are often visual things that happen as a result. They display on the screen. Maybe it comes out of the speaker. It's something generally ephemeral that just happens. But it's not necessarily useful in the same way as another type of function that we'll return to in just a bit. But last week, recall that we got the cat with a speech bubble to uh manifest on the screen and say hello world in that speech bubble when the input was hello world and the corresponding function was instead say. So let's see if we can't now tease apart what the code we wrote is actually doing for us bit by bit. So let me go back to VS Code here and let me propose to break this in a little way. Let me delete the backslash n if only because at first glance who knows or cares what that's doing. Let's just get rid of it if we don't understand it. I could now go back down to my terminal window and I could do dot /hello enter again. But there's seemingly no change, which is good. Doesn't seem like I broke it, but I've kind of misled you here. Why? Why did nothing seem to change? I didn't recompile it. So, recall that the compiler converts source code to machine code, but I already did that a couple of minutes ago. If I've changed the source code, it stands to reason that I need to recompile the code to actually see the effects of that. So, let me do that again. Make hello enter. Nothing seems to have gone wrong, but let me now dot /hello enter. And it's subtle now. And in fact, let me go ahead and zoom in. It's really just an aesthetic bug in so far as functionally the program is still technically printing hello world. But what's seemingly wrong? Or put another way, what did the backs slashn apparently do? &gt;&gt; Yeah. So, it's somehow giving me a new line. And that's essentially what the back slashn denotes is give me a new line there. And why was I doing that? Well, really just for the aesthetics. Like if this dollar sign represents my prompt where I type commands. If anything, it just looks kind of stupid that I finished a program over here and then the prompt is on the same line. It just looks wrong. Even though you could sort of argue that was my intent, even though in this case it wasn't. So, what would the alternative be? Well, what you're seeing here is what's actually generally known as an escape sequence, which are sort of uh special sequences of symbols like backslash and n in this case that do a little something unusual. And here's just a non-exhaustive list of some you'll encounter in the real world and including in CS50. Back slashn moves you to a new line. Back slash r is a so-called carriage return. If you've ever seen or used an old school typewriter, this refers to the process of bringing the typing head back to the left end. So it sort of moves the cursor horizontally as opposed to vertically. This one's interesting. Back slash double quote. Why does there exist this pattern? Back slash double quote. Yeah. &gt;&gt; If you just write double quote, it closes the &gt;&gt; exactly. So recall that phrase we tried to type uh print out like hello, world. If for some reason you didn't want to say hello world, but you wanted to say some or like sort of snarkily like hello world or something like that, well, you can't put a quote a quote a quote and a quote and expect the computer to know which quote corresponds to what. It's just arguably ambiguous. So if inside of double quotes, you actually want to print actual double quotes, this is a escape sequence that tells the computer, this is not some quote delim delineating where my thought begins and ends. This is literally a double quote. And we'll see other situations in which a single quote or apostrophe is the same. We'll see crazy situations in which you want to print a backslash, but backslash already has some special meaning. So there's solutions to all of these problems. But let's not get too far into the weeds here. But let me go back to the code and propose what the alternative otherwise might have been. If I didn't know about backslashn, my instinct to move the cursor to the next line might have been literally to just like hit enter or do something like this, like move the double quote, move the parenthesis, move the semicolon on to the next line. But this should start to rub you the wrong way. And indeed, this violates a principle of most programming languages and that most programming languages are linebased. You sort of start and finish your thought ideally on the same line. And this runs a foul of that. And two, even if you're seeing code for the first time, assume that this just looks stupid as well to sort of move part of your thought to the next line, it just looks a little sloppy. And it is. So C and many other languages, Python among them, solve this by giving you these so-called escape sequences. So if you want a new line there, you do back slashn and you will get your new line there. Now, that's a bit of an overstatement what I said in that sometimes lines of code will be so long that they do wrap onto multiple lines, but generally that's a convention that we're going to try to avoid. All right, what else could go wrong? Well, let's do this. Let me go ahead and clear my terminal window, which I can do by hitting uh L or I can literally type clear. And I'm going to frequently do this just to keep the screen clear, even though it has no functional impact. It's just an aesthetic. Let me do something else accidentally. Suppose I forgot to finish my thought and I omitted the semicolon, but otherwise the code is perfect. Let me do make hello. Now enter. Now we're going to see some output that's a little more arcane. Let me go ahead and scroll back up here to make clear that what's just happened is I ran make hello, but I didn't get back to another prompt. I don't see immediately a dollar sign because there's an error message here that is almost as long as the code I tried to write. Not to worry. Let's see. Here is the name of the file in which the problem exists. Stands to reason that it's in hello C. Here is the line uh number in which the problem seems to exist. Line five. And that's helpful because it lines up with this. And then if you're you care to count, this is the 29th character. So if I count from left to right around character 29, something is wrong. Something is missing. So it's a pretty decent error message. In fact, it even says expected semicolon after expression. There's a little green carrot symbol pointing me at the mistake. So this is an again a this is another value of the compiler. Not only will does it know how to convert source code to machine code, it's also pretty good at finding mistakes in your code and trying to draw your attention to them. So how do I fix this? Well, assuming you've understood the error message at this point. Well, you just go back in, add the semicolon. Let me go back down to my terminal window. I'm going to clear it just to clean up the mess. Let me rerun make hello. And now we are back in business. And indeed, if I do /hello, I've got hello world back on the screen. Well, let's make one other mistake. Suppose that I forgot, as you sometimes will, to include this line at the top, which will make more sense next week, but for now, let's just omit it and dive right into the code. You would think this is enough, just printing out hello world. Well, here, let me go back down to my terminal window. Let me do make hello again now. And I'm going to get a whole different error message instead. So now problem is still with hello C. That makes sense. Line three. Okay. So somewhere in there print f is suddenly the problem even though the semicolon is back and the back slashn is back. So let's keep reading. Error call to undeclared library function printf with type int. And then this is a whole mouthful. So, here is an example of an error message that unless you're sort of conditioned to know what this means and you've seen it before, it's quite more cryptic and unclear like what the solution to the problem is, especially when the rest of your code is truly correct. I've just forgotten something stupid. But how can I sort of think about this problem? Well, it turns out that another feature of C is that it comes with a bunch of header files. A bunch of files whose names don't end in C, but end inh. And these so-called header files which end inh are contain code that other people wrote that you can use in your own programs. So for instance in this particular case a header file is giving us access to what's more generally in computing called a library. A library is code someone else wrote that you can use. And I actually used a library last week when I did that import line and mentioned open AAI the company. I was actually using a library from that company that I had automatically downloaded and installed into my programming environment in advance of class because I don't know how to implement a chatbot without standing on their shoulders and using a lot of the code they themselves wrote. Same idea here. Even though print f is a feature of C, if you want to use it, you have to include that library by telling your program to include the header file that defines that function. And you only know this by being taught it or looking it up in a book or a reference. But in this case, I wanted to use a header file called standard io.h stdiodio.h. Um, it is not studio.h. This is a very common bug online. Um, if you find yourself typing studio.h, typo, it's standard io.h. And in that file then is defined the printf function. So, if I go back to my code here, the solution to this problem truly is to just undo the deletion I made a moment ago. Because what line one is now doing for me is it's telling the compiler, oh, by the way, I didn't write all the code that I'm about to use. Please include the definition of print f from this other file called standard io.h. And again, you'd only know this by looking it up in a reference, attending a lecture or something like that. It's not obvious otherwise, but these are the kinds of things you very quickly look up. So, where do you look them up? Well, it turns out the ecosystem of C has, you know, hundreds of books you can buy or download, many, many, many websites. Among them is one of CS50's own. And in fact, the conventional way to look stuff up for the programming language called C is to look at the official manual pages or man pages for short for the C language. Unfortunately, many of them were written decades ago and they were certainly written by fairly advanced programmers and not for a broad audience. And so what we have done is imported all of that freely available documentation uh hosted it at our own URL here manual.cs50.io and we've essentially simplified it for those less comfortable those of you who might be less familiar with less comfortable with technology and really for most people who aren't used to reading manual pages. It's just useful to have it written in teaching assistant like language instead. So for instance if you go to a URL like this you'll see CS50's documentation for this official library standard io.a H that comes with C itself. If you get a URL like this, you can look up the documentation for print F itself specifically. So for instance, let me go ahead and just give you a teaser for this. If I were to do the same on my own computer, I might see the CS50 manual pages here and you'll see header file by header file a bunch of frequently used functions in CS50. We've also filtered the list down from a massive list to much shorter list so that you can sort of see what's most likely useful to you. If you go to a specific page like standard io.h, you'll see for instance here just over a halfozen functions that we won't touch on today beyond print def, but that we'll see in the class over time that does useful stuff. For instance, printf prints to the screen. And we'll see other functions for opening files, closing files, and the like because all of that's related to standard IO input and output. If I go to a specific man page for uh this uh header file, you'll see the standard formatting for these pages. So, here's the name of the function, print f, and it prints to the screen. You'll see a synopsis, and this indeed indicates we're in less comfortable mode. If you want to see the original, more arcane documentation, just uncheck that, and you'll see the original official documentation, but you'll see a mention of like what header file this function is defined in so that you know what file to use in your own code. You'll see a so-called prototype, which is just the first line of code from that function. More on that in just a little bit. You'll see an English description. You'll see example code. Long story short, this is the authoritative answer. And even though you have access in this class to the virtual rubber duck at CS50.AI and in other forms of it that you'll soon see, you should also have the tendency and the in instinct moving forward to check the official documentation. And all of today's AIS are trained on things like the official documentation. So that's the source material that any of these AI, the ducks among the duck among them are actually relying on. But what we're also going to see is that besides these official functions, there's some that CS50 itself has invented. We use these really as training wheels for just the first few weeks of the course and then we take these training wheels off. But the reality is in a language like C, certain stuff is just really hard or annoying to do. Certainly if you're learning how to program for the very first time or at least you are new to C. We'll eventually show you how to do it that way. But even if you just want to get input from the user like a string of text or a number of some sort, it's generally not that easy to do in C, at least in these early days. So for instance, at this URL here, you can see documentation for CS50's own library and CS50's own header file, CS50.h. And you'll see such functions in the documentation as these get string, get int, get char, and a bunch of others as well. And we'll touch on those this week. But it will ultimately be a way of just getting useful work done quickly by standing on our shoulders and actually uh using functions we wrote to then solve problems of interest to you. So let's focus for instance on one of these first. Get string. A string in programming speak means text. Zero or more characters of text like h e l l o comma space w o r l d. That is a string of text in computer speak. And it's obviously not a number like 50. It's actual text that you would type on the keyboard. We'll see then what other things we want to get. But with this pro this function, we can start to replicate another program that we implemented pretty quickly last week in Scratch. So recall that in Scratch, this one was a little more interactive. I used another blue puzzle piece ask to actually get input from the user. And recall that unlike the print defaf function today and the say block last week, this time we still have the same input output model, but if we pass in arguments to a function uh that we're about to see, you can get back not just a side effect sometimes, but a return value like a useful reusable value like the person's name as we'll soon see. All right, so let's actually do this. If in Scratch the equivalent was asking the user, what's your name? asking them that and then waiting for an answer that we can store in a variable. Let me propose that in C side by side it's going to look a little something like this. Instead at left we have the scratch block the ask function here is the argument there too and then it and wait just means it's going to wait till the user finishes typing. If I want to translate this to C now today moving forward well it looks a little something like this. The closest analog in C thanks to CS50's library is going to be a function called get