value pairs which is this omnipresent computer science thing it seems including in the context of URLs whereby if you want to pass a input to a web server one means by which you can do that is literally in the URL itself. So for instance, if you visit google.com and you want to search for something, you and I are all in the habit of course of just typing into a search box. But how is that search box actually getting the data into Google's servers? Well, it's via these URLs. And if there's not one input, but two inputs, the URL might be a bit longer and there might be one or more amperands in the URL that just separate more key value pairs. And it turns out we can see this in the real world as follows. Let me go back to VS Code here. Let me open up a new tab. Uh, and let me open up uh, google.com. And I'm just going to hit enter on the shortest way of saying it. So, I get to Google's home uh, homepage here. Even though notice I ended up at some longer form of the URL. In fact, I'm going to delete everything else from the URL that's not relevant to us today. It's still forcibly coming back. So, Google is somehow trying to track me by putting that in there. That's fine. All I'm going to do is search for cats. Now, there's a whole bunch of other functionality that's clearly happening, like autocomplete, and it's trying to figure out what results or words I might want. I'm just going to go ahead and hit enter. And this is all to say that notice if I zoom in on the URL at the top of my screen, it's a crazy long URL because Google probably is doing a bunch of tracking and advertising and analytics technologically, none of which is relevant to us today. But notice after www.google.com, there's /arch, which is the path on their server, the search program that someone there has written. There's a question mark and then there is an HTTP parameter as these things are called the more precise name for key value pairs in URLs. This is an HTTP parameter. Its value after the equal sign is in fact cats. All this other stuff I have no idea what it is. I'm going to just delete it and hit enter and it stays gone. But I still get cats in my search results. So this I would argue is sort of the canonically shortest form of a Google URL that's useful. In fact, if I want to search for dogs instead, I don't have to use the search box. I can literally manually make my own URL, hit enter, and if I zoom out, there are Google search results about dogs. So, this URL 2 is sort of the essence then of how URLs work. And specifically, the get verb, which was that keyword in all caps that I claimed was inside of the envelope, and it's what Phyllis's browser was sending, and it's what my browser has been sending through all of these examples. But here's where things now can get interesting. If I know how Google's server works, its backend, the part that knows all about cats and dogs on the internet, I can implement my own front end by just knowing a bit of HTML. So, let me actually go back into VS Code here. Let me go uh into my second terminal, which is blank, and let me go ahead and create something called search.html. I'm going to go ahead and copy my original code, close link, and paste it here. Hide my terminal. call this thing search and then inside of the body of this page I'm going to make my own version of Google here. I'm going to use a form tag and I'm going to in that form specify an input tag whose name is going to be exactly equal to what I saw Google uses Q which happens to stand for query. Uh I am then going to add another one input. Uh the type of this button actually let's say the type of this box this input is going to be text. The type of this next one is going to be a submit button. Uh, and then that's it. Let me go back into my other tab. Go back into my directory listing. Click on search.html. And this is not pretty, but it is the beginning of my very own search engine. Unfortunately, if I type in cats, notice what happens. My URL changes such that it's search.html question mark q equals cats. I know nothing about cats. I don't have a database of cats. I haven't done any backend work, just the front end. The front end is what the user sees. The back end is what provides data to the front end. But why don't I tell this form not to submit to me. But let's say that its action should actually be go to go to https www.google.com/arch which is the URL that I saw in my browser. I'm just inferring how Google works. I'm going to be pedantic even though this is the default. I'm going to say the method I want my form to use is get. Confusingly, it should be lowercase here, even though inside of the envelope it will be all caps. And then I'm going to go back to this page. Reload after going back. And you'll see the same exact box, but when I search now for cats, submit, notice my URL changes to Google's own. It's like voila. Like I just implemented my own Google without doing the actual hard part. I've actually just done the more simple front end. And there's a few other things I can do here that are sort of nice. I can change the type to be a search box. I can change the value of my button, not to be the default, which notice was submit. I can say Google search. And I can keep tweaking this to make it even prettier and prettier here. Now in my version is now a box that has uh cats. Notice that it's trying to complete my thought. I can actually go back into the form. I can say autocomplete equals off to turn off that feature. So now if I click in this box and type Oh, autocomplete equals off. Why is it still there? &gt;&gt; Did I forget to refresh? Oh, thank you. I forgot to refresh. Hence my point. So you always have to reload after making a change. And now the autocomplete feature is off. And this other little thing, it's subtle, but this little X that will just clear the whole thing. That is simply the result of having changed text to search for the type of that box. Um, there's other things you can do too for accessibility or user friendliness. I can do auto uh focus here for instance without any attribute or without any value. If I now reload this page, notice that the cursor is automatically blinking in the text box, which is a marginal change, but much easier for me to now type cats without having to stupidly click in the box in order to actually foreground it so I can type input. So, suffice it to say, this is not really the business that Google is in. They do much more on the back end than they do on the front end. But with just these basic building blocks, can I implement the beginnings of the same website? In fact, let me do one other flourish. You'll see that that text box is blank. Not clear what I might want to do. Well, there's another attribute I can use. Placeholder equals something like query. I can at least tell the user what to search for. If I reload again, now I see in gray text query instructions so that I roughly know what now to type. So all these things that you see every day on websites are really as easy as just coding up some HTML like that. But what else can we do with HTML? Well, it turns out this is a topic for another longer day too. There exist in computing what are called regular expressions which is a fancy way of describing patterns which are quite useful when you want to validate input. For instance, if you want the user to have to type in an email address with the at sign with the tldd and so forth, it would be nice to make sure that they get a warning if they try to skip that field or they mistype something in it as well. Um, with the world of regular expressions known in short as reg x's, you have a whole bunch of uh documentation here that in a nutshell will introduce you to some pretty powerful syntax that we won't spend much time on at all today, but it's syntax that exists not only in uh the world of the web, but in Python and so many other languages as well. So consider this just a quick crash course. If you want to define a pattern in say a website that ensures that the user types in a email address, you can use these textual building blocks whereby in the world of regular expressions, a single dot represents any character. If you don't care what the character is, dot confusingly doesn't represent a period, it represents any character. Star represents zero or more times. Uh plus means one or more times. Question mark means zero or one time if you want something to be there or not. curly braces with a number means this many times n and you can even have a range of values instead. And then you can use square brackets and some other syntax to say I want the user to type in any of these characters or digits in this case. Or you can do ranges like this. I want them to type in any decimal digit between 0 and 9 or back slashd represents any digit. Back slash capital d means anything that's not a digit. Long story short, humans over the years have come up with shorthand notation known as regular expressions via which you can define patterns. This is useful because if I wanted to make a web page that does in fact require that someone type in say an email address, I can enforce that to some extent. If I go back to my browser here and into VS Code, let me go ahead and create a new file called say register.html to be representative of registering for some website. I'll change the title here real quick. I'm going to keep the form, but in this case, I'm not going to bother with Google anymore. So, let's make it a bit simpler than before. And let's go ahead and do this. Inside of the form, I'm going to have an input. Uh, I'm going to have the name of this input be email because that's what I'm collecting. I'm going to have a placeholder be quote unquote email so the user know what's to type in. Um, and I'm going to go ahead here and have something like how about uh this a pattern as well. So actually let's say uh let's say type equals text, but I'm going to specify additionally a pattern. So the pattern I want the user to type in in between these quotes is going to be any character one or more times. That is to say their username, then an at sign. then any character one or more times. Uh then literally a period and we didn't see this on the screen but just like in C when you want to escape special characters if you want literally a period in their input as the like the dot in harbor.edu you can say backslash period to mean a literal period and then the word or the uh tld edu. So I think now what this means and let me go ahead and give myself a button and just so you've seen it there's also a button element in HTML which is similar in spirit to the submit button we saw a moment ago. Let me go back to my directory listing go into register.html and let me go ahead and just type in like mail as my name register and you'll see please match the requested format. So I have not satisfied it properly until I actually type in something like mail@harvard.edu and now it's happy. Alternatively, it's a little tedious to actually type in these patterns. So, there are some shorthands for them. I can actually get rid of this pattern. And if I read the documentation for HTML, there is actually an input of type email which just does all of that pattern matching for you. But the scary thing is that it's actually pretty involved to validate email addresses. I did a very simplified version of username at domain.tld. This is the regular expression that some browsers use to validate email addresses because even though mine is relatively simple mailin@harbor.edu, turns out there's a crazy amount of syntax that is valid in email addresses. And this is where regular expressions get scary. But for our purposes today, they're a thing that exists. You might find them useful in HTML. You might find them useful in Python. They're incredibly useful when it comes to extracting information from web pages. If you're analytically minded, you like the world of data science, you like to uh gather and analyze data, you can use regular expressions not just to validate data but to find patterns of data in actual websites or documents and extract that data so as to perform operations or analysis on them. So wonderfully useful if complicated tool. The catch though is this. Notice that here I'm still required to type in a valid email address register and I'm getting even more explicit information this time because I use the type equals email. The catch though with web pages is that they're not to be trusted in so far as this HTML came from the server and is downloaded onto the user's Mac or PC or phone where they have a copy thereof. I can open up developer tools as I did before by right-clicking or control-clicking and choosing inspect or whatever the menu option might be. I can go into the elements of this page, literally the HTML, and if I don't want to type in email, I want to just type in any old text and see if I can break your site, I can just change it. And now there is no such warning. Which is to say, even though you will encounter, not just today, but over the coming weeks as you play with HTML certain features, they are not to be trusted in general when it comes to security. And just like our discussion in the world of SQL and SQL injection attacks, this is one of the attack vectors. If two people are working on a website, one person's implementing the database stuff, one person's implementing the HTML, and the database person's like, "Oh, I don't need to worry about escaping characters because we're doing you we're using the pattern attribute in the HTML." Bad idea because it's this easy to hack a website, disable features that have been written for the site by just literally deleting them in your own copy. So, we'll see next week how we can defend against this on the server side, but the point now is just not to trust the user's input at all. All right. How can we be sure our HTML is right? Well, there's a bunch of ways, but one tool that's worth knowing about is this one here at validator.w3.org is a website uh by the group that essentially standardizes this and other languages. If I click on their validate by directput tab and I quickly go back into VS Code and let me grab the simplest of my examples, hello.html, I can just copy paste that into their website. Click check and they have written code to validate that the HTML I have written is in fact correct. Anything I've opened that needs to be closed has been closed. I don't have any stupid typos or missing brackets or quote marks. This is a wonderfully useful tool just to validate that your code is syntactically correct. Even though it might still look like a mess visually on the screen, this will at least check for you the underlying HTML. All right. So, up until now, everything I've done has been pretty boring. It's black and white. The pages are fairly simplistic. Turns out we can take things the final mile using another language altogether. Namely, something called CSS, which is the second of our three languages today. This two not a programming language, although curiously, they keep adding more and more features that are making it more and more like a programming language, but more on that another time. This stands for cascading stylesheets. And whereas HTML is all about the skeleton of a website, the structure thereof, CSS is like the the skin, the aesthetics thereof, the final mile that actually allows you to control the positioning of things more precisely, the colors, the font sizes, all of the aesthetics. It lets you do the finer touches on the website. And with CSS, we have slightly different syntax, but frankly, it just boils down to even more key value pairs. And as with HTML, we'll give you a taste of the basic structure and principles underlying CSS. There's so many uh key value pairs that are possible that we certainly won't do them justice today, but it's the kind of thing where you ultimately look it up in a reference, a book, um a website, or the like to pick up even more than these techniques. Well, let's do this. Let me propose that in a moment. We're going to see what are called properties. This is CSS's jargon for key value pairs. Why do we have yet another word? because a different group of humans in a different room came up with this language versus the other people. But it's just key value pairs known as now as properties instead of as attributes in HTML itself. There's going to be different ways we can define properties and this is kind of a laundry list of some of them and we'll see them in context. But in short, CSS is just going to allow us to slap a whole bunch of key value pairs on our HTML elements to make them hopefully look prettier or be more precisely controlled aesthetically. So, in my HTML, thus far, we've generally had something that looks like this. Turns out, if I want to start using some CSS, I can introduce, as we'll see, a so-called style tag in the head of my page. And inside of that style tag, I can put these so-called key value pairs. Or, as we'll soon see too, if I want to factor them out and put them into a separate file, I can actually use a link tag, which confusingly has nothing to do with hyperlinks or clickable text, but just links in another file. In this case, styles.css. the relationship of which shall be that of stylesheet. This the sort of copy paste stuff that you do where the only thing you really care about as the developer is the name of the file in which you're putting your styles. All right, let's do this. Let me go back over to VS Code, close out register.html, open up a new file this time called home.html, and let me purport to make a simple homepage for someone like John Harvard. I'll copy paste my boiler plate. I'll change the title here just to be uh let's say uh home. And then inside of the body of this page, let's do the simplest web page possible for someone called John Harvard. I'm going to say here's a paragraph of text uh when John Harvard is going to be the person's name. Here's another paragraph of text. Welcome to my homepage will be in the middle of this page. Then a final paragraph of text inside of which is like copyright. See how about uh John Harvard down here. So, it's a basic website. It's just three paragraphs. It's not going to be pretty, but let's make sure I haven't done anything wrong. Let me close my developer tools. Click back. Click home. And there we have it. The simplest of pages for John Harvard. Welcome to my homepage. Copyright John Harvard. Let's at least start to exercise some control over this. Let's change the font size and the alignment of the text. So, back in VS Code, let's go ahead and add uh for now, actually, not even a style tag, but a style attribute. I'm going to go ahead here and type in style quote equals quote unquote font-size large and then text-all colon center semicolon. And I apologize, but semicolons are back in CSS. Then, in my next paragraphs, open tag, let's do something similar, but different. font size colon medium for medium text align colon center semicolon. Uh, and then lastly down here, let's do style equals quote unquote. Font size colon small because it's the footer, so who cares? Text align colon center semicolon. Strictly speaking, at the last key value pair, otherwise known as a property, you don't need the semicolons, but just for consistency, I'll keep them uh for for that. All right, let's go back to this page, reload, and watch. All of the text a moment ago was left aligned and the same size. Now, it's a little subtle, but it's clearly centered, but it's large, medium, and small, respectively. Even if you've never seen CSS before, what rubs you wrong about this design, though, based on all weeks past? &gt;&gt; Yeah. For every line, I've been repeating myself with text align center. Text align center. text in line center. And if we really want to nitpick, these aren't really paragraphs, right? There's like no phrases or full sentences, let alone paragraphs. So, it turns out there's a whole bunch of tags we can use to lay out a page. And in fact, I'm going to transition to one that's a little more generic than paragraphs, namely div, which is just going to create a division in the page for me. And this doesn't have any functional impact, but semantically it's a little nicer because it means I've got the division here for the header, the division here for the main part, and the division down here for the footer. It's just a different way of thinking about it. is just different rectangular swaths of the page. But I like your point that text align center is kind of stupidly duplicated all of these times. Let me actually go ahead and first reload this change because there is one side effect that we might want to get back. When I reload now using divs instead of paragraphs, well, there goes the nice white space in between my text. Divs just give me rectangle after rectangle. And as an aside, let me control-click or rightclick, open up developer tools yet again, and notice this other trick with your elements tab. Whatever you hover over at the bottom of your screen will be colorcoded at the top of the screen. So if I dive into the body by clicking this little triangle, let me zoom in. At bottom left, I can now see my own HTML much more uh pretty printed and colorful down here. If I click on this one or hover over it, you'll see that the first div, the rectangular region is highlighted. Now the second, now the third. That's all we mean by divisions of the page. Um, this allows me to see my copy of it in the browser as opposed to in the original file. So just another technique for developer tools. All right, but I don't like this duplication, but here is now the C in CSS. Cascading stylesheets means that if you want one property or key value pair to sort of cascade down on all of the other tags inside of that one, you can do that. For instance, in the body tag, I can add my own style attribute here and put all of that text align center there. Why? Because div are the three children of the body tag to borrow our vernacular from family trees and from trees more generally. So, this too should work because text align center should cascade down now on all three of those children. And indeed, if I reload the page, nothing visually changes, but it's arguably now better designed. All right, what more could we do here? Well, how about this? It would be nice to make clear to servers out there, like search engines, like what's going on in the page semantically. And the term of art out there nowadays is the semantic web, which essentially is about putting more hints in your HTML so that servers like um search engines kind of know more so what they're looking at. This is pretty generic right now. Div, div, div. But presumably the top of the page is among the most important things because that's effectively like the header of the page. Then the middle div is kind of the second most important because it's like the main part of the page and the footer is like the least important. So it turns out there are other tags in HTML besides paragraphs and divs. There are literally tags like header which allows me to define the header of the page, main which allows me to define the main part of the page and then even footer which allows me to define that too. So now if Google and Bing and other search engines are sort of crawling my website once it's public, they know that John Harvard's important because it's in the header, uh, welcome to my homepage is important because it's in the main page. They're probably not going to care as much about the copyright because it's in the footer. So it's just providing more hints to these kinds of services. Um, moreover, we can do some other things here. This is kind of a hackish way to implement a copyright symbol. HTML also has what are called entities where if I can do this magical incantation here, uh, amperand hash symbol 169 semicolon. Notice that VS code recognizes this as an HTML entity. If I go back to this page and notice my first approach was just parenthesis C parenthesis. If I reload now, having used that HTML entity, which I only know by having looked it up, now I get the copyright symbol that actually comes in the font that's being used here. All right, so let's transition now to this approach whereby I claimed before that you can actually use a style tag. And why might we want to do this? Well, looking back at my code here, this is sort of hinting at potentially bad design. Even though there are different arguments for and against this, right now I'm sort of co-mingling my data with my presentation thereof. Like John Harvard, welcome to my homepage and copyright such and such is sort of the data I care about. Um, but I'm sort of mixing in the stylization of all of this stuff by putting CSS and HTML in the same place. So to be clear, all of the green stuff and even well everything we've seen thus far, the tags and the attributes, that's all HTML syntax. Everything between the quotes is now CSS. And this is the first we've seen this before only in the sense that we've used SQL inside of Python code. Here we're using CSS inside of HTML code. But the CSS syntax is everything thus far inside of those quote marks. Wouldn't it be nice to kind of factor that out so that I can see it all in one place and better still factor it out ultimately to another file? And I can do this as follows. Let me in my home.html HTML get rid of all of these style attributes and really go whittle the page down to its essence whereby I just have the header main and footer tags inside of which is that content. It's already easier to read at least for me the human inside of my head tag. Now though let me go up and say style and inside of this new style tag let me show you another approach for stylizing the page. Up here is where we can actually select elements to operate on using what are called selectors. So if I want to modify the style of my page's body, I can do that by typing body. And then I'm afraid curly braces are back in CSS 2, I can put text align center up here. And the fact that I've put the word body before those curly braces just means all of these key value pairs, one in this case, will operate on the body. Meanwhile, down here, I can say the header is going to have font size colon large. Uh, the main part of the page is going to have font size colon medium. And then lastly, the footer of the page is going to have font size colon small. You know, definitely more lines now, which isn't the best, but the effect now if I go back to my browser and reload visually is pretty much the same. I've just relocated all of those key value pairs elsewhere, but as a stepping stone now for doing something a little smarter whereby I now can uh lay the foundation for putting this in another file al together. But first, let me note this too. The fact that I've put all of these key value pairs associated with specific HTML tags doesn't really make them very usable or re rather reusable. And so when I alluded to earlier that these properties can be applied to different selections of HTML type selectors, class selectors, ID selector, attribute selector. Let's just give you a little taste of this. What do we mean? Well, suppose that I want to generically be able to use text align center uh without associate it only with the body. Maybe I want to use this for a larger project where I want to uh center many things on the page. I can define my own keyword like the word centered which doesn't exist per se but if I prefix it with a dot what I've just created is what's called a CSS class and a class is just a set of key value pairs properties that you can associate with any HTML tags meanwhile if I want this key value pair to be associated with the notion of large I can define large I can define medium and I can define dot small down here the motivation for which is that now in my page page. If I want to center the body, oops, let me fix my own typo. If I want to center the body, I can say please use the class known as centered on this tag. And then on the header, I can say please use the class known as large on this tag. And then please use the class called medium here. And then lastly, use the class called small here. So now in the spirit of a lot of the modularization we did in Scratch and in CN Python of making your own functions, classes aren't functions, but they are a way to encapsulate one or more properties and use or reuse them anywhere you want in a web page. It's not that over it's not that impressive here in this short one, but it lays the foundation for doing much more interesting things soon down the road. In fact, let's take a step in that same direction. Let me go ahead and now highlight everything I've put inside of this style tag um and cut it onto my clipboard. I'm going to get rid of the style tag al together. I'm going to create quickly a new file comb.css and I'm just going to paste all of that stuff in there. And just to be nitpicky, I'm going to de-indent it so it's all left aligned. So all I've done is just move everything I just wrote into a new file called home.css. I'll close that. Out of sight, out of mind. But what I'm going to do now in the head instead of a style tag which contained all of that clutter, I'm going to say link href equals home.css and then this real tag which just means the relationship of this file to this one should be that of a stylesheet. And this tag 2 does not need to be closed. It just is. And now if I go back here and reload, still no changes other than the tweaked the font a moment ago. Still no changes. But now it's better design with that file completely separate. So where are we going with this? Well, just to kind of circle back to something we did earlier, let me open up my terminal window. And recall earlier we had this file like favorites0.html. And this contained all of the data from a couple of weeks back that we solicited via that Google form. And recall a bit ago when we went into favorites 0.html. I mean, it was just kind of an ugly uh table structure. But it turns out in the world of uh in the world of HTML and CSS, there are also what we're going to call frameworks, which is a fancy word for library. But a framework is sort of a way of doing something by using someone else's library. And to do it their way, you just read their documentation and then you adopt their functions in the case of code or you adopt their CSS classes in the case of this example. So, one of the most popular frameworks out there nowadays and among the simplest and best documented is one called Bootstrap. Uh, which is a set of uh CSS classes and other features that you can use because it's open source in your own code. And in fact, all of the documentation is at this URL here. I read the documentation before class and I copied really the one line of code that I need to make favorites.html even prettier. So, let me go back into VS Code and let me copy my pre-made example from earlier. And you'll see that in favorites, whoops, favorites one.html, I have all of the same code, all of those lines of everyone's submissions. But notice I've added now this link tag. And it's a little longer than the one I wrote. It's referencing a third party website, JS Deliver, which is a CDN, content delivery network, which is to say a server that just serves up content for other people to use. But I copied that from Bootstrap's own documentation. And what I did here is the following. I added a class to my table tag specifically with a value of table and followed by a space table striped. Why? Well, I read Bootstrap's documentation at that previous URL and I liked the look of their tables because it lays it out with nice stripes like white and gray and white and gray and it sort of formats everything quite a bit nicer. So, if I go into this version in my second tab by going back first and now opening up favorites 1.html, HTML, same exact data, two lines of change, and voila, now we're talking. This looks much more like a table that you would see on any pretty website like your Gmail inbox or the like, all by simply changing the CSS and not really the HTML at all. So, the motivation for introducing those classes a moment ago was so that we can have reusability of code. And better still, we can start to stand on the shoulders of others by using code that other people have written in order to improve the aesthetics of our own websites as well. All right, how about a couple of final flourishes with some style? Let me close out these examples here and let me propose to go into how about that same link example from earlier. So, let me reopen link.html, which recall had this fishing attack at the time. I'm going to revert this to the safe version and just say visit Harvard at Harvard's actual URL. Suppose I wanted to stylize this link beyond the default. Well, let's see what it looks like by default. If I go back into link.html, this is what it looked like before, blue and underlined by default per the browser's decision. But I can override that and any number of ways to keep things simple. I'm just going to stay in my same file now rather than uh be pedantic about moving it to another file. And if I want to stylize the anchor tag, just as before, I can say a and then in some curly braces here, I can do something like this. Color uh colon red. If I want to make it crimsonlike instead, let me go back to VS Code or my other tab. Click reload. And now we have a red tab. I can really geek out. And if you remember your hexadimal codes from our discussion of images a few weeks back, I can do hash FF000000, which is a lot of red, no green, no blue. And if I go back to my other tab, click reload, same exact thing. You have that much control over even the color codes that you might use. Maybe you don't like the underlining in this particular case. Well, that's fine. I can do something like text decoration none per the documentation. I can reload and gone is that underline. Maybe it'd be nice to hover over the word and then see the underline. Well, I can do that, too. Turns out I can have these pseudo selectors whereby I say the name of the tag, then a keyword like hover, which browsers know to recognize. And when I hover over an anchor, what I want to do is change the text decoration to underline temporarily. If I go back to this tab now, reload, looks the same, but as I move my cursor over, notice that it's underlining it for a visual effect. Let's see what's going on with my developer tools. If I right click anywhere and choose inspect, notice a detail I haven't showed us before is not uh is under the elements tab here. Notice if I go down to my link here and let me just make the right hand pane here a bit bigger. All this time but ignored up until now has been this part of developer tools whereby I can actually see all of the CSS that applies to the element I have just selected, namely this link. And I see here in nice pretty printed fashion that I'm using this color FF00000000 text decoration none. Why is this useful? Well, one, if you want to learn from another website how it's doing its thing, you can just look at the CSS, but also if you want to be able to iterate more quickly and just kind of tinker with things, I can actually turn the color on and off by just hovering over the inspector here and just turn it on and off by clicking and uncclicking. And if I want to just play around with, oh, maybe maybe Harvard should be 00 FF0000, enter, I can make it green instead. So, you can temporarily change the browser's copy of your own HTML or CSS just to tinker and iterate quickly just like I tinkered with Stanford's uh own website or at least my own copy thereof. Lastly, how about in terms of these selectors? These are using type selectors that is selecting the name of the tag. If I want to actually uh affect one tag specifically, a very common convention is to give an HTML element a unique ID. For instance, I'm going to call this Harvard. And by uh honor system, I should not give any other element in this page an ID of Harvard. The motivation is that I can now uniquely identify this tag by for instance changing this to hash Harvard, which is just the convention for specifying that it's not a class now. It's instead an ID. You do not put the hash though in the actual value down here. And what I can even do down here is something like um uh hash harbored to scope that as well. If I now reload, we're back to the red version and the same functionality as before. And it's just a more precise way now to target your CSS properties to a very specific element instead. Okay, that was a lot. Any questions on any of this thus far? No. That clear? All right. Well, one last language for the day. And and we do mean what we say like that is the extent to which you will learn formally HTML and CSS like everything else just follows those exact same patterns. It's different classes. It's different attributes. It's different tag names. All of which can be picked up through practice, through uh osmosis, through uh references. But that's really it for the fundamentals. And so our last focus today is on an actual programming language that we'll just scratch the surface of, if only because it's so darn omnipresent nowadays. Most every website you use is made from not only HTML and CSS, but if it's in any way interactive, odds are it's using JavaScript, a programming language that is very commonly used client side whereby humans write the code on the server, but then your browser as before downloads it to the client and then it runs in your own Mac, your PC or your phone. That said, JavaScript is also very popular on the server nowadays. It's not just a browserbased language. In JavaScript, what you have most powerfully though is the ability in memory to mutate this tree in real time. In other words, think about even your Gmail inbox or your Outlook inbox. Typically, you see email after email after email after email. Odds are per today, what HTML tag is creating that UI of row after row after row? Which tag? like table tag like the table tag probably right table row table row table row but it wouldn't make well actually this is the way things used to work in my day back in the day when you visited not even Gmail before it existed but your email inbox you would download from the server a web page containing a table tag with table rows and table data elements and that was your inbox if you wanted to see if you got new mail you just reload the whole page and it would download new contents from the server and show you the new HTML with JavaScript which has come onto the scene over the past 20 plus years. You have the ability to download the data once initially, then use code to just grab some more data every 30 seconds or some more data pretty much anytime an email arrives. And if this picture here represents not our super simple hello title, hello body page, but a whole bunch of table rows for your existing email. The moment you get more email, you can use JavaScript code to add another node to this tree, another node to this tree representing the table row tag. the table row tag again and again. So in short, with JavaScript, you have the ability to change the tree, otherwise known as the document object model or DOM for short, dynamically in order to evolve the web page. So let's take a quick tour of what JavaScript does have syntactically and then I'll just demonstrate some of the capabilities thereof without dwelling today on syntax beyond this. So in Scratch, which is looking pretty good now, you had conditionals which looked like this. In JavaScript, it's pretty much the same as C. The curly braces are back at least for uh two or more lines. Uh but uh indentation doesn't matter except for the style thereof as it uh as in contrast with Python. If you have an if else, it's going to look the exact same in C. If you have if else if else, you have the exact same thing in C. Different from Python because this was l if in Python. Now we're back more verbosely to else if as in C. Uh variables in JavaScript. Well, here in Scratch is how you set a variable counter to zero. In JavaScript, there's a few ways to do this, but the most uh reasonable for now is to let counter equal zero. So, you don't specify the type. This is more of a polite way of asking the browser, please let a variable called counter exist and set it equal to zero by default. Semicolons are back. However, that's not strictly true. Browsers are smart enough to know where semicolons actually matter, but for our purposes, assume that they're always there. How do you change counter by one? Well, you can do it the pedantic way, which is a little verbose. You can do the plus equals trick or nicely back in play is the plus+ in JavaScript just like in C but not in Python. Loops in JavaScript. Well, in Scratch, if you want to do things three times, here's how you would do it in JavaScript. It's pretty much the same as C except for not mentioning the data type. Instead, you use the keyword let here. But otherwise, this is exactly the same as in C. Uh if you want to do something forever for whatever reason in JavaScript, you can say while true, which is exactly how we did it in C. If you have a web page like this, meanwhile, and you want to insert some JavaScript to it, you can do it in a couple a few different ways. You can put a script tag just like the style tag in the head of the web page. This can get you into trouble though for reasons you might encounter whereby if you put your JavaScript code up here and you try to use it to modify the web page but the web page isn't defined until down here you can get into some uh a race condition really where the data does not yet exist. So um you instead of putting it there or even in another file, it's actually pretty common too to avoid that altogether by putting your script code or your script tag at the end of the page just before the end of the body to ensure that all of the web page exists already. This is similar in spirit to the deaf issues we saw in Python or the prototype issues we saw in C. There's bunches of solutions though to this here problem. But let's now take some JavaScript for an actual spin and use VS Code to write some of it as follows. uh in VS Code. Let me go ahead and close link.html, open up my terminal temporarily, and let's improve my actually let's just improve the very file, hello.html, that I have here in front of me, and actually have it be more interactive and give me sort of a popup on the screen when I type in my name. So, let's start as follows. First, let's go ahead and change this just to uh hello, just for short. And in the body of this page, let's give myself a form. And in this form, let's give myself an input. Uh, we'll turn off autocomplete just to avoid distractions. We'll turn on autofocus to save me a click. I'm going to give this HTML element an ID uniquely of name. A placeholder also of name just so the human knows what to do. And the type of this field shall be text. In other words, I want to create a program week one and week zero where I type in my name and see hello such and such. I'm going to give myself an input a submit button with input type equals submit. don't really care what the button says, but I do care now when I go back to my other tab, close my developer tools, go back into hello.html, I now have something that looks like this. It looks similar to our search example for cats, but now I'm asking the user for their name along with the submit button. But what I want to have happen is when I type in David and click submit, I want to see hello David somewhere on the screen. Well, how can I do this? Well, a few different ways, but JavaScript allows me to do things like this. And for upcoming problem sets, you won't necessarily have to write JavaScript like this. So consider this a whirlwind tour, not so much uh something to ingrain. Here I can add a new attribute to the form tag called onsubmit, which as the name suggests means call the following function when this form is submitted. Well, what function do I want to call? I'm going to call it a greet function. And that's it for now. How do I define a greet function? Well, I could, among other places, put this inside of the head of my page in a script tag. I can define a function in JavaScript by literally saying function and then the name of the function and then in parenthesis any arguments there too. I'm not going to have any. And then in curly braces, I can actually define the meat of that function. And for instance, I can do this. Uh, let name equal the following document.query selector. And now what I want to do is this. Document is a global variable that just comes with JavaScript in the browser that allows me to write code involving the whole document, the web page itself. Query selector is a fancy name for a function that lets me select specific elements of the page using CSS selector. So the very same syntax we saw with names and with dots and with hash symbols a moment ago are back in play for JavaScript here. So if I want to create a variable that stores the name that the human typed in, what I can do is pass to query selector a selector for that element, which is quote unquote hash name, where hash just means ID. But the reason I'm using name is because the unique identifier I put here is name. If I change this to foo nonsensically, that's fine. I just have to change this to foo up here. So I'm in full control over what is called what. But if I want to get the value that the user typed into that box, I now do value. And we've seen these dots before. In C, they were for accessing strrus. In Python, they were for accessing contents of objects. So this just means use the document global variable, use the query selector function or method inside of it, get the element whose unique ID is name, and then go inside of that text box and give me its value. So it's a very long-winded way of saying store the user's input in a variable called name. But what's nice now, even though this is going to be a bit ugly, is I can then use a built-in JavaScript function called alert. And I can say something like hello, close quote, then plus, which we've seen before in Python, and concatenate with it that name's V value. Now, this isn't quite complete and for reasons I'm going to wave my hand at. I also need to add annoyingly return false down here because otherwise if I click submit, yes, the greet function will get called, but the browser will still try to submit the form to a server which is going to interrupt my own code. So, long story short, this is a bit of a hackish approach for now to just making sure that the only thing that happens when I submit this form is that my function is called. Now, if I didn't screw anything up, I should now see after reloading this page a prompt for my name. I'll type it in and when I click submit, I should see an ugly but functional alert box pop up with dynamically generated text, namely hello, David. I say it's ugly because by convention, Chrome shows you the full URL or the domain name of the website in question, which is my randomly generated one, which does look stupid. So, we can do better than this. But the point is now that I have written code in JavaScript to listen for the submission of this form and when that happens call that their function. And this is generally the paradigm of JavaScript. There exists in the context of websites a whole bunch of events that can happen. And this is a word we haven't used since week zero in Scratch. Recall that in Scratch you have events like when green flag clicked and when the green flag is clicked you can do something in response. Same thing in the world of web programming. Here are just some of the events that can happen in a web page. Like the user can change something, click on something, drag something, key up, put the keyboard up, put the mouse down, or other things. What I'm listening for is the submission of a form, which is cool because in JavaScript then you can essentially write code that listens for any number of these events and then does something when it happens. Consider after all in Gmail, if you click the little refresh icon within Gmail itself to get new mail, it runs some JavaScript code. it turns out to talk to Google's servers, get more email, and update your site. If you click and drag on Google Maps to see like higher up geographically, well, what's happening? Some JavaScript code is listening for your mouse going down and dragging so as to go fetch more tiles, more rectangular pictures of the map wherever you're trying to drag. So, anything that's interactive in websites nowadays like that is using JavaScript by just listening for things that you or someone else might actually do. Well, let me go ahead and start opening some pre-made examples just to give you a sense of the other syntax that is in use today with JavaScript. I'm going to go hello program called hello2.html, which is different in that I'm practicing what I preached earlier by putting the script tag at the bottom of the page just to ensure that the form and everything inside of it already exists for sure by the time this code executes. Moreover, what I'm getting out of is the business of using the onsubmit attribute. So, just as I tried to get my CSS out of my HTML and put it elsewhere, similarly, I'm trying to get my JavaScript code like the greet function out of the HTML and putting it down here. Now, why is this useful? This is a big mouthful, but it just follows a general pattern as follows. Document.query selector quote unquote form is just getting a reference to the actual form element in the page. So if you imagine in your mind's eye that this is drawn out as a tree in the computer's memory, this is just getting me a pointer to the form node in that tree. Haven't seen this before, but it kind of does what it says. Add event listener is a function or method that you can call on any element that just tells it to listen subsequently for this event and when that event is heard, submit in this case, call the following anonymous function, otherwise known as a lambda function. But long story short, this syntax just means when submit happens on that element, execute the code between these curly braces. What happens? Alert. Hello. Quote unquote document.query selector name.val. I didn't bother with the variable this time. This does exactly the same thing, but is a purely JavaScript solution without using the onsubmit attribute. And we show you this only because especially for final projects, you might want to do something like add event listener to make like maybe a drop- down menu or some interactive clickable thing in your website that just listens for one of these events to happen before actually executing some code. Um, notice I've been conventionally using single quotes in JavaScript because that's just a thing in the JavaScript community to generally prefer single quotes over double quotes. Why? Well, it means people in JavaScript are hitting the shift symbol like much less than the rest of the world to get double quotes. It's just a convention. So long as you're consistent, um either is fine. Um conditional on not having actual apostrophes and text and such. Let me show you one other convention. Instead of putting my code at the bottom of my page just before the body ends, it is also alternatively conventional as in hello3.html HTML to do this to still maybe put the script tag at the top of the page, but to additionally have this magical line whereby you add an event listener before you do anything else that listens for this crazy weirdly named event called DOM content loaded. But now that you've heard DOM briefly, DOM is document object model just means the tree in memory. This is just the fancy way of saying when that tree is loaded, go ahead and do the following. And this ensures that when a browser reads all of this code top to bottom, left to right, this code won't actually be executed until the whole DOM is loaded into the computer's memory. That whole tree is built. So that's all that's being referred to there. The rest of the code is actually exactly the same. Um, what more can we do? Well, just so you've seen it, I can delete all of that code, move it to a file called like hello.js, JS. And in the fourth version of this example, I'm back to just HTML because I can put all of the fancy complexity inside of my script uh tag here, factoring that code out into hello 4.js, but the code is otherwise, I claim, unchanged. All right, this is a lot. I know it's quick, but do the general principles make sense? Like just listening for events and running some code in response? That's really all we're talking about. Allah week zero with scratch. All right. Well, let let me let things escalate just a little bit. And this time I'll open the demo first. Let me go ahead and open up hello 5.html which I wrote in advance, which okay, this is definitely starting to look like a mouthful, but in a moment it'll make a bit more sense. Let me go ahead into my other tab here. Click back. Go into source 8, which is all of my pre-made examples. And I said we're in hello 5 now. And in hello 5, there's no submit button because watch this fanciness when I search for something like C uh or David as a full-fledged word there. Notice it's just happening inside of the web page. Moreover, if you poke around, let me rightclick on the page. Let me inspect to open my developer tools. Let me expand the body down here. And actually, let me reload the page. So, notice by default, this is what my web page looks like. It's just got an empty paragraph tag for some reason. But watch what happens at the bottom of the screen. And I'll zoom in a bit more. When I start typing my name like D and then let me expand this triangle. You see it beginning A V I D. When I say that JavaScript can mutate the DOM, the actual tree in memory. Like that's what you're seeing. You're seeing the HTML preprinted color-coded version of that tree in memory. And how is it working? Well, if we go back to the code here, well, let me wave my hands at this first line. This just means don't do this until the whole DOM is loaded. Let's look at this line, which means give me a variable called input, and set that equal to, okay, the input tag on the page, the text box, and then do what? Well, take that input, add an event listener that's forever listening for key up, like my finger going up off the keyboard, and when that happens, call the following function, which has no name, but that just means call these lines inside of the curly braces. Well, what happens inside of those curly braces? Well, here's a variable called name. And this is just pointing at the paragraph tag. Apparently, I'm checking this question. If there's hm if input value, so this is like saying if input value does not equal quote unquote just implicitly, go ahead and set the inner HTML of that name variable equal to hello quote unquote input value. Now, this is crazy syntax and I'm showing it just because you'll see it in documentation online. This is similar in spirit to Python's F strings. It's ugly syntax with dollar signs and curly braces and worse yet back ticks. However, this is a manifestation of really the JavaScript community presumably deciding that if you want the language to evolve, you have to make sure you're backwards compatible with old versions of the language. So, they chose characters and syntax that probably do not appear already in the wild. That's why sometimes things look uglier, I would surmise, than otherwise. But long story short, this just means if there's input there, go ahead and say hello, input. Otherwise, it says by default, hello whoever you are. And in fact, if I go back here and delete my name, watch what happens. It goes back to that default. So, here is just an example of listening for keystrokes going up and down and making sure that the page responds accordingly. How about something else? Let me go back into my directory listing. Let me open up background.html, which I wrote in advance. It's super simple, but this is the first of like an interactive website that has three buttons labeled R, G, and B. As you might imagine, clicking on R does that. G does this, B does that. Well, how is this working? This is the first example now where you can use JavaScript code to alter CSS dynamically. So, let me reload the page. So, it's back to white. Let me open developer tools and watch what's happening now on the body tag specifically. Initially, there's no stylization on the body other than the browser's default margins and whatnot over here. But watch what happens at bottom right when I click on the R button. You see that all of a sudden background color red was dynamically added. Now it's green, now it's blue. And notice the HTML at bottom left is changing too. So somehow I am listening for clicks and then changing CSS in response. So if I go back to VS Code, let's close Hello 5. Let's open up source 8's uh version of background.html. And in here, it's a bit of a mouthful, but the HTML is simple. Here's three buttons. And because I wanted them to be uniquely identifiable, I gave them all IDs of red, green, and blue, respectively. And then this code is a bit of copy paste. And frankly, I could probably avoid that if I were more elegant. But just to be pedantic, here's what's happening. Here's a variable called body that's just getting the body element, the node in the tree at that moment in time. And then these three lines of code, their purpose in life is to handle the red clicks. How? Well, we're telling the document to select the element whose ID is read, listen for the click event, and whenever that happens, do this. Body, which is the same variable as before, dotstyle, which we haven't seen before, but any element can have a style property associated with it in JavaScript. Background color equals quote unquote red. And the other blocks of code are exact same thing for green and for blue. The whole point here is we're now listening for clicks on buttons and changing not the contents of the button but rather the style thereof of the whole page. As an aside, this is curios uh curiosity. This is what's known as camelc case whereby like a camel has a hump in the middle. This word has a hump in the middle like capital C all of a sudden to separate the two words in CSS. Recall it was uh a moment ago background dash color. Anyone want to guess why this is not how you write it in JavaScript? Anything with hyphens in CSS is changed to camelc case in JavaScript. &gt;&gt; Uh it's not related to comments. It's simpler than that. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Right. Like left hand wasn't talking to right hand and people realize, oh damn it. Like this now means background minus color which is not a thing because minus is indeed just like in C and in Python a mathematical operator. So, the world decided to reconcile this problem by just capitalizing uh the character that would otherwise be where the hyphen is. Well, little CSS trivia. All right, what else can we do? How about a couple of final examples here? So, what more can we do with CSS? So, back in my day, too, we had a tag called the HTML blink tag, which is among the few tags in the world of HTML that has actually been deprecated, that is removed from language. Like no one removes things from languages generally, but the blink tag was so hideous, followed only by the marquee tag whereby my own homepage is like a freshman had like welcome to my homepage just moving across the screen like this from left to right for no good reason like an ugly marquee and like uh on like a digital signage nowadays. But we can bring it back as follows. So if I close out my developer tools, go back into my source 8 directory and open up blink. This is what the blink tag used to do back in the day. Now, this version is implemented instead in JavaScript code as follows. I have a function here called blink, which I'm apparently calling every once in a while. Uh, how is that happening? Well, let's scroll down. Here's my HTML, super simple. Literally just says hello world. But notice this. There's another global variable we haven't seen in JavaScript called window. That refers to like the general window, not necessarily the contents of the page, where you can call a method called set interval. And you can tell that method set interval to call a specific function every number of milliseconds. So if I want to call blink every 500 milliseconds, that's the line of code that I use. If I scroll up to now this function, let's see how blink is implemented both now and perhaps back in the day. Well, body is a variable here that's just pointing to the body node in the DOM. And this is a big mouthful, but if that body's styles visibility property in CSS is quote unquote hidden, then change that body's styles visibility property to be visible. Otherwise, change it to be hidden instead. Here too, don't understand why left hand and right hand weren't talking to one another. You would think that the opposite of visible would be invisible, but in CSS, the opposite of visible is hidden. Just have to memorize stupid things like that. But what's this really doing? It's just changing the CSS from hidden to visible. Hidden to visible every 500 milliseconds. So in fact what you're seeing here in the blink is if I inspect this page too. And now notice it's kind of fun just to watch it. You can see the HTML at bottom left and the CSS at bottom right just automatically changing because I'm doing that every 500 milliseconds. All right. How about one other? Well, autocomplete. Well, we saw a step toward this with my hello, David example a moment ago. Super common though in Google and like every website now to automatically try to finish your thought. How is that happening? Well, that's not just HTML and CSS. That is also some JavaScript thrown into the mix. So, for instance, let me go into my terminal and open up source 8's example called autocomplete.html. And here I am going to borrow a file called large.js which is just a massive version. I'll open that too if you're curious. Large.js is just a huge JavaScript array. eras are back containing all of the words from problem set five, the spellchecking problem set where you had a 100,000 plus words in uh C in a file given to you. Now we've converted that to JavaScript by using a global variable like this in the code here. What's happening? Well, apparently there's going to be a text box at the bot at the top of the page that we see. Then there's an empty unordered list. So an empty bulleted list. And then there's this code down here. I'm apparently creating a variable called input that's referencing that text box. I'm then listening for key up just as like we've done before. And then I'm doing this. I'm setting a variable called HTML equal to quote unquote nothing. So an empty string. And then I'm checking does the input text box have any value implicitly. If so, what am I doing? This is kind of cool. It's a bit of Python and C together syntactically for each word in the words array. JavaScript uses the keyword of instead of in like Python, but so be it. What I'm doing now is in JavaScript, I'm saying if that current word in that big file of 100,000 words starts with whatever the user typed in, go ahead and add to that HTML string using plus equals, which is just concatenation. We've seen plus before, the following, an LI tag inside of which is that specific word. And so in effect, what you're seeing now is what every almost every website nowadays does. They're not manually writing HTML like we've been doing much of today. They're writing code that dynamically generates HTML because the programmers understand what HTML is. They understand that unordered lists have li children. And so using this string that I've highlighted, they're creating LI element after LI element for the purpose of changing the inner HTML of the UL element to be the value of that variable. And this is a very long way of saying how is autocomplete implemented in general. Well, just like this, if I search for cats by typing in C, there's every word in that 100,000 dictionary that starts with C. A T S. And there's every word that starts with C A T S. Meanwhile, watch what happens underneath the hood. If I open up my inspect tab again and I go to my body, inside of this is the empty UL, but watch as soon as I start typing something like C. Now I can expand the triangle because there is an LI element that's been created for every one of the words that match. As I do ATS, now I've got just four of them. And there is cats, there is cats skill and so forth. So anytime you go to google.com like we did earlier and we went to google.com and started searching for cats, where are all of those search results coming from? Someone wrote JavaScript that's listening for key up or the like and then dynamically populating an unordered list or in this case a much prettier list of the matching results. And the final example that we thought we'd leave you with, and again the whole purpose of introducing JavaScript is to give you a taste of its syntax and its relative familiarity, but with the power that you can uh the power with which you can leverage it to make websites so much more interactive. And in fact, with Bootstrap, you don't just get CSS you can use, you have a whole set of JavaScript functionality. So you can have drop- down menus and the like. For instance, for instance, among the things you'll use for an upcoming problem set and perhaps your final project, something that looks a little like this, uh, in Bootstrap.html, here's a whole bunch of code that I literally copied and pasted from Bootstrap's documentation. And it's just like boilerplate code for a corporate website that has features with pricing and disabled menu options as well, just for the sake of discussion. And then here, if I go back into this example, you'll see fairly simple website that looks like this. A so-called navbar with all of the main menu options of like a corporate website. And notice if you start to resize the window, which I'll do here, and put it into sort of mobile mode because it's so narrow now, thanks to JavaScript, it's listening for clicks on this hamburger menu and revealing the menu options that way. This is quite like how CS50's own website works and so many other websites out there. But the last one we thought we'd use is you're so in the habit of using Google Maps or Uber Eats or any number of apps that need to know your location. That too is exposed through JavaScript quite simply. Let me go ahead and in geoloccation.html HTML open up uh the following code whereby super simple even though some new functions there exists another global variable in JavaScript in browsers called navigator which has a property called an object called geoloccation which has a function called get current position that takes an argument which is just an anonymous function which means call this code when you're ready to know the uh coordinates because it might take a while to figure out your GPS coordinates and once you do this simple example is just going to write to the document that is the rectangular page the positions latitude that comes back and the position's longitude that comes back. So to see this in action, let me go ahead and uh open up that second tab. Go back into geol location. It's notice for privacy sake, it's asking me to approve this. So I'm going to say allow this time. There are apparently my laptop's GPS coordinates. And if I go to google maps.com, I can actually paste this in here. Enter. And looks like if we zoom in in in okay, I'm not technically outside, so it's only close to a degree of precision, but it's probably mapping to one of the Wi-Fi access points that's on that corner of the building. So, we're pretty darn close, pretty much close enough to get me my my food or my my ride here. And a final note, now that you've seen a little bit of JavaScript, let me go ahead and open up just 60 final seconds of uh just how uh how much effort it took us to put not only this lecture together, but particularly that example of the teaching fellows passing packets, everything we like to think is very finely flourished here. Uh but here's a little bit of behind the scenes and these final 60 seconds together. If we could dim the lights before we adjourn. &gt;&gt; Off you go. Offering. Okay, Josh. Nice. Helen. Oh, Bentimony. No. Oh, wait. That was amazing. Josh um Sophie Amazing. That was perfect. &gt;&gt; I think I over to you all. &gt;&gt; Oh, nice guy. That was amazing. Thank you all. &gt;&gt; So good. &gt;&gt; All right, that's it for CS50. We'll see you next time. Heat up here. Heat. Heat. All right, this is CS50. This is already week nine. And I dare say this week is the most representative of what you'll be doing after the class if you so choose to program in the future and tackle some project that's new to you. In fact, the closest to this week was perhaps week six wherein we didn't really introduce all that many new concepts but really translated them from C and to Python. And so this week in particular, the goal is to really synthesize the past 10 weeks of class, drawing upon a lot of the building blocks that are hopefully now uh metaphorically in your toolbox and gives you an opportunity now to apply those ideas to new problems. In particular, web programming. So every day you and I are using the web in some form. Every day you and I are using mobile apps in some form. And we said last week that the languages underlying a lot of those applications are HTML and JavaScript for the layout and aesthetics. and then also in part JavaScript for a lot of the client side interactivity that you might experience nowadays. Well, today we come full circle and bring back a serverside component whereby we'll again write some Python, we'll again write some SQL code and use it to make our full-fledged own web applications and in turn if you so choose mobile applications as for your final project as well. So up until now when we did anything with the web, you ran this command last week HTTP server which literally did just that. It spawned a so-called HTTP server that is a web server whose purpose in life is just to serve up content from like your current folder, any files therein, any folders therein. And so all of the URLs generally followed a certain format. So if your URL were example.com/reall just denotes the root of the web server and so in there typically by default you would see a directory index. We'll see today that that goes away because generally when you visit something.com/ you want to see the actual website, not the contents of everything in the server. So we'll see how to address that. But the URLs up until now have been of a form like file.html literally referencing a file in that folder or folder slash which just means whatever is inside of that folder or folder/file.html or dot dot dot. You can nest these things however long that you want. And recall that more generally we said that you're referring to some kind of path on the server where pi the p path is a step of folders ending in perhaps a file name. So today we're going to generalize that at least in terms of nomenclature and start talking more about routes because essentially in web programming we are going to exercise a lot more control over what is in the URL. So back in the day it referred to literally a file on the server and as recently as last week the URLs referred to literally a file on the server. However, we'll see in code that we can actually just parse this that is analyze what is after the domain name in a URL and just use this as generic input to the server to figure out what kind of output to produce. We're going to see the same convention though. If you want to pass in specific parameters, key value pairs, uh we'll use a question mark after our so-called route key equals value. And then if there's another one or more, we'll just separate them by amperands. And to do all of this, we're going to recall the inside of those virtual envelopes. Recall that if we did something like on google.com to search for cats, what was really being sent to the server was a request for /arch, which notice is not search.html. There's no folder per se there. This is just the name of a program really running on Google servers. And that's going to be the so-called route that we ourselves start programming today. question mark Q equals cats just meant that the query parameter the input from the web form is going to contain in this particular example the word cats. So how are we going to do all do this? So we could implement our own web server in C. It would be a nightmare to like use a language as lowle as C and actually deal with something as high level as writing code for the web. We're instead going to use Python for the most part if only because it's much higher level. But even then, we would probably if we wanted to do this thing uh from scratch, we would have to write a lot of Python code to like analyze the insides of these envelopes, figure out what inputs are being passed to the server, and then figure out how to access that in Python code. It's just a lot of work to just get a web application up and working. And so what the world generally does is they don't reinvent the wheel of writing their own web server. Rather, they use an off-the-shelf fairly generic web server or application server as it might be called. And we for instance are going to use something called flask. Now flask is a framework as the world would say or more specifically a micro framework which just means it's a library of code that other people wrote to make it easier for us to implement web applications. So they took the time to figure out how to handle get requests on a server, post requests on a server, figure out how to extract key value pairs from URLs, the sort of commodity stuff that like literally every web application on the internet has to do anyway. So we don't have to retrace those steps ourselves. What this will allow us to do is only implement the problems that we care about by using this framework. And to be clear, a framework much like Bootstrap is not only a library that someone else has written for you, but it's like a set of conventions that you follow in order to use the library in their recommended way. So it's more of a generic term that includes library and a set of conventions. And how do you know how to use either? You just read the documentation or take a class in which we're about to give you an introduction to some of this right here. So instead of running today http-server to start a web server that just serves up static content files and folders in our account we're instead going to run the command moving forward flask space run and this is going to look for code that we've written in our current directory and if it is in accordance with the conventions to which I'm alluding by using the so-called framework then it's going to start our web application on some TCP port for instance 8080 as we discussed last week to do this all we have to have in our current folder There is minimally a file called app.py by default. This is hinting at an application in the language called Python. And what code we put in there we'll soon see. And then ideally we would have another text file called requirements.ext by convention inside of which is just one per line the name of all of the libraries that we want this web application to include. In other words, if I go over here to VS Code, if I don't have such a file, that's fine, but I want to use a framework like Flask. Recall our pip command for installing Python packages. is I could just say pip install flask enter and that would go ahead and install the flask framework or library for me just like we did a few weeks ago with installing the silly little cows uh library as well. I've already done that in advance and better still I've installed I've come with uh my code today both of these files app and requirements.ext and in fact if I go ahead and create one just for fun here all you need do in a requirements.ext text file is literally put the name of the library that you want to include and then you run pip in a slightly different way to install that library or any other libraries that are in that file as well. So let me wave my hands at the requirements.ext for uh moving forward. It just means what libraries do you want to use with this web application so you don't have to remember or memorize them and type them all out manually. All right. So what's going to go inside of app.py? Well, the minimal amount of code that we can write to make our own web application that does something like print out hello world to my browser could look like this. Now, there's a bit of new syntax here, but not all that much today moving forward. The very first line just says from flask import flask, which is a weird way of just saying give me access to the flask library. Capitalization no matters. And so, the package that we're using is called flask lowercase, but we want to have access to a special function in there called flask capital F. So this is sort of a copy paste line. The next one's a little weird looking, but it essentially says give me a variable called app and turn this file into a flask application. We haven't seen this in a few weeks, but there was that weird if conditional that we put at the bottom of some of our Python code a few weeks back that just said if uh dot dot dot and it mentioned in there name if name equals equals_. So we've seen an illusion to name. For our purposes, name just refers to whatever the name of this file here is. No matter what I call it, you can sort of access the current file by way of this special global variable. So this line collectively just means turn this file into a flask application and store the result in a variable called app. So I can now do stuff with flask. And what am I going to do? Well, down here, let me first point out a familiar syntax. I'm defining a function that I called index by convention, but I could have called it anything I want whose sole purpose in life is just to return quote unquote hello world, which is the super simple output this web app is going to display. But, and this is the new syntax, I'm using here, what's generally called a Python decorator, which is a type of function that essentially affects the behavior of the function right after it. So, by saying atapp.rout route quote unquote slash. This is telling the Flask framework associate this index function with this route, the single forward slash. And that's how we're going to take over the default behavior of the slash portion of the URL by telling it to return whatever this function returns. And we'll see this in action now. So let me go over here say to VS Code. And within VS Code, I'm going to whip up exactly that application in a file called uh app.py. Just so as to combine this and some subsequent examples, maybe the same folder, I'm going to first create a directory or folder called hello. I'm going to go into that hello folder. I'm going to go ahead and recreate that same requirements file just for good measure to tell the world that I want to use the flask library here. And then I'm additionally going to create now app.py. And I'll type this fairly quickly, but I'm just reciting what we saw a moment ago. From the