usingthe pure concatenation. And yeah that'sthe tools that I run these custom toolsand I think they've really helped mestand out from the crowd in terms offinding recon and finding data. Sothat's one of the bigger things I wantyou to do. By the way, no pressure but Ihave some links in the description whichare to my labs. So, these are hands-onpractical labs that I've designed. Ifyou know my videos, I always use a liveexample to demonstrate the conceptsbecause I really believe in practicalknowledge over a kind of PowerPoint orsomething like that. Especially in bookbounty, you have to do do things. Youhave to actually do things yourself toactually get the idea and find thevulnerability on real applications. It'swhy I believe in labs as well. I'vedesigned my own labs based on usuallyvulnerabilities I've found myself orvulnerabilities that were found by otherbook bounty hunters that I've replicatedin the labs. They're really valuable.They're all online. You don't have todownload anything. They're basically inthe same format as my usual labs whereyou just go on a website and then youstart hacking it basically. And it'sjust more created. It's kind of moreprofessional instead of the usual likeyou know kind of the patch of labs thatI usually deliver on the YouTubechannel. So if you're interested in thatthen link in the description but nopressure on. Okay. So I ran my reax. Ihave my all my GraphQL queries. Nowthere's a lot of these GraphQL queriesthough and reading them would takeabsolute decades. You can see how do Isort out the actual kind of uselessGraphQL queries when the ones that weactually want to look at and what we canuse again is AI. So watch this. This isthis is one of the is one of these coolthings that I think I actually foundwhich is you come in here you save theactual web page as a HTML page. You saveit here. You go into Chad GBT right andyou say I'm I'm testing my websitefor vulnerabilities.These are all the GraphQLqueries on my website.What vulnerability should I test for?If you're looking to integrate more AIinto your workflow as a manual hacker,then I honestly think that at this pointthis is a must for you, which is Shiftagents or some kind of agentic AItesting system. What shift does isinstead of just telling you things thatyou should look for, what it willactually do is it will go and test ititself. Right? So if you click thisagent tab here, you can say test thisendpoint for cross-ite scripting andit's going to go and actually try allthe payloads for yourself. And what youcan then do is you can store yourprompts here. You can use differentmodels as well. You can store likeprompts. You can like add anotherprompt. You can add prompts fordifferent vulnerab. So maybe I'll saylike this is like race condition orwhatever. I can find like a prompt forrace condition and I can say like sendthis request in parallel or whatever.Burpuite has something similar with withburp AI which is something that I alsorecommend using but I have reallyenjoyed using shift agents for a while.Just using chat GPT is okay. Listen youcan go and ask chat GPT what should Itest for? But this is really like thenew meta at the moment. is basicallyjust putting this into like AI that'sactually going to do some of the workfor you. Because although Chad GPD cangenerate a lot of payloads for you, it'snice to have an AI that's going to testindividual payloads and then iterate onit itself, which is going to be supernice. In terms of creating somethinglike reax patterns or whatever, you canactually like feed a request into theAI. So you can say like generate a matchand replace or turn on this feature. Andin this case,what is going to happen is that it'sactually going to receive the entirerequest. So if you want to have context,you want to give the AI context based onsome kind of request, this is alsoreally nice to do. And those if you'relooking to integrate Chptd into yourmanual recall or like manual hackingstuff, I think this is also great and itcan also help to find some leads. Now,obviously, this isn't going to hackeverything for you. You're not justgoing to be able to say, you know, starthacking this website or whatever, andit's going to find you a lot ofvulnerabilities. What this is going tobe helpful for is whenever you have asituation where you suspect there's avulnerability, but you're not quite surehow to exploit it, or you need to try alot of different payloads, then this isreally going to be great. And obviously,it's just going to also save you sometime by creating your match andreplacements or whatever. And it'sreally honestly not that expensive. Iput about $40 into my like uh what's itcalled? Um like worth of credits intothe provider and I've used about like 30cents of it over like two weeks. Soreally, it's not expensive at all andit's also really useful. So if you'relooking to integrate AI into yourworkflow, then this is where it's at.And what GGBT will do is using the fileI give it, it will suggest things I canfind. So vulnerabilities I can find fromthose requests.And this is good because most people aregoing to try and sort it by hand. Butwe're going to use AI to identify thehighest priority requests that we needto look at. And it's going to suggestthat basically just a patternrecognition, right? And most of the timethe things that it will suggest will bethe highest priority. So instead ofwasting our time on some like randomlike you know change profile picturerequest that's not really going to havean effect right [clears throat] we'regoing to focus on the requests so theAPI endpoints that are going to give usthe real value and that's what I wantwhat I want you to you to actually focuson you can do this with all of your reaxwith the link finder you can do it aswell you can pipe straight into jbd andask it for vulnerabilities to find thisI think works the best with somethinglike graphql though but it can also workwith the client side patch traversal andyou can find it works with anything thatyou design yourself based on the programand experiences that you have personallybuilt up. I've just asked HGP tobasically read this file now and this iswhat it's saying. So we look for brokenaccess control privilege escalationlooking for private objects and thenit's basically giving me the query andtelling me to basically try and look forsome kind of privilege escalation. Ihave mutation authorization bypass. Sobasically looking for mutations seeingif we can do basically same kind ofbroken access control or injecting somekind of uh introspection exposure maybetry introspection that's another thingyou can use or for example injection sointo string markdown or LLM prompt seeit's identified everything from theactual content and the ideal thing youcan actually do is you can modify thisprompt I've just done this prompt as anexample but really I would build up amuch more complicated prompt so forexample will say give me like ready togo curl request that I can just straightaway fire in like and you can dosomething like that. You can do you canask it to give examples from the actualdocument. I just haven't. But it's justit's giving me some examples anyway. Butif you want specific like you don't wantkind of waffle, you can give it you tellit to give specific examplesand injection DOS file attachments.Yeah, you can go straight testing all ofthese things. And I think the mosttime-saving way that you can starttesting the endpoints is by just pipingthe information directly into AI. Youcan even try Claude. Although I thinkChajbd is actually better for hackingbecause Claude is a bit [ __ ] and itdoesn't like want to give you uhvulnerabilities. So I really preferusing charg but you can definitely tryout the other AIS as well. And yeah,that's really what you want to do onceyou have your read to reax you want topipe it into AI and then you want tobasically examine those vulnerabilities.So that's where the real hacking begins.This is this is where recon ends andthen the real hacking begins now wherewe're testing actual vulnerabilitiesnow. So this is all our recon done now.So, what else can we do for recon? Well,some people also like using the waybackmachine. The wayback machine allows youto see old versions of the website. So,we could allow you to see old APIendpoints. So, if we go like, let's sayhacker onehere,we'd go in, we'd find hacker one. Wefind hacker one as well. And we'd say wefind like um we go back like three yearsin time, see what the API endpoints looklike now and then test them again. Maybepipe them into chargesbetween the current API endpoints andthe old a and the new API end sorry wecan find differences between the new APIendpoints and the old API endpoints.Once again we can probably use AI forthat because it's just a timeconumingtask but it's something that you canuse. Guess this is loaded up. You can golike researchersopportunities.Maybe we can go back in time to like2023. This might not load up thoughbecause since this is an old old umendpoint and it's using older APIs, itmight not work with the new API. So itmight just like the API endpointsprobably won't work. But even if the APIdoesn't work, note that the JavaScriptis still there. Right? If you see thisspinning wheel, that means theJavaScript loaded, that means there'snothing stopping us from going here,running our GraphQL query finder, andjust doing basically the same thing aswe did before, right? So, finding this,piping it into CHP, and then comparingit with the results that we found here.So, that's not stopping us at all.That's one way you can use the waybackmachine. You can also use it to findsecrets, hardcoded secrets. companiessometimes put like API keys intoJavaScript by mistake. That's you can docan do a bit of recon on them. But themain thing is to identify older APIendpoints. The last bit of recon that Iusually end up doing is just actuallyreading the documentation that thewebsite gives us. So if you just GoogleAPI oops hacker one going to go here andit's going to give us some kind ofdocumentation. Nowadays almost everyplatform will have some kind ofdocumentation whether it's hacker onedeliveroo or I don't know [ __ ] USdepartment of intelligence they'll goingto have like API documentations now justbecause most websites use integrationsand stuff like that it's just better forthe internet that way and withdocumentation it's going to give us alot of intelligence on what the apiendpoints are for instead of doing likerandom parameter fuzzing most of thetime you can just go here go into likeresources something like that and youcan just like find API endpoint here andit's just going to give you the like thethe parameters that are accepted. Nowthat doesn't mean that more parametersactually aren't accepted, right? So ifthis API endpoint like this APIdocumentation tells us that theseparameters are accepted than theyprobably will be, but that doesn't meanthat there's not more accepted.Sometimes companies will allow moreparameters in like by accident maybe,which is going to lead tovulnerabilities. So that's wheresomething like parameter mining is goingto come in. But normally this is goingto just make our life easier becauseit's going to tell us how we canactually use the API endpoint with thecurl. So instead of getting tragic to dothis, we can just go here and use itourselves. Usually it's going to requiresome kind of API token which you can getfrom logging into the platform. Itshouldn't be too hard. And with that youcan test like all of these APIendpoints. You can actually pipe thisinto charging PSL if you want to and youcan ask which of these will be the bestto test out and stuff like web hooks.you know there's a decent bit ofvulnerabilities and things like this. Umwhat else we have like use casessometimes like resources you canobviously get like privilege escalationsID doors are a big thing here if youhave someone like uploading files whichmaybe it's somewhere here like assetsyeah importing files uploading files andyou can start having like S3misconfigurations which I've talkedabout previously in the channels there'sa lot of really great vulnerabilitiesthat you can look for in these APIdocumentations that's why I always takea look at this because it can give me asense of where I should go next, whatvulnerabilities I should attack, andwhich vulnerabilities I can attack thatactually suit my hacking style as well.So, that's really good. And yeah, Ithink that's most of the recon that Ido. It's just going to run down torunning the reax, running it with GPT,getting some idea of where to go next,getting some features to test on,[music] and then reading the APIdocumentation to basically try and findout what I should do. Sometimes whatwill actually happen here is that in theAPI documentation there'll be an AI aswell. So sometimes you can actually askthe AI like what whether there's like aparameter somewhere if you want to askit like can I do something then you cando that. So I can clarify some thingsfor you to help you find like businesslogic error vulnerabilities whichthey're not like technicalvulnerabilities but they're kind of likeassumptions that developers made thekind of cool vulnerabilities. Right. So,here I have my demo example, and this isjust a very simple blog website that Imay or may not have stolen off theinternet, but we're just going to useit. I've coded in a few vulnerabilitieshere, so we should be able to have alook at them, and you can actuallyfollow along with this. Uh there's thelink for this should be in thedescription. The website is up on apublic domain, so you should have noproblem accessing this. It's built inExpressJS, so nothing really crazythere. So I really encourage you tofollow along actually and try and findthese vulnerabilities yourself. And ifyou get stuck then you can watch thisvideo later.So what the feature centric approachcenters around is trying to identifysmaller components before we dive intoactually testing these massive features.So once you've picked a subdomain thatyou consider to be a valid target likethis uh app.jacob Jacob Jen uh bookbounty domain. Then we're going to hopin and start identifying features herethat we can test on.So most websites actually have a lotmore features than people think. So ifyou look at this login feature, thenthat's going to be a feature by itself,but so is the registration feature,right? And each of those is going tohave a different flow to it. And each ofthem can have very seriousvulnerabilities. So we shouldn't weshouldn't uh discount any features likefor example signing up because if wesign up then we might be able tooverride other users or access yourdetails as well. So every feature isworth looking at and the features thatare often most overlooked actuallysometimes carry the most criticalvulnerabilities.So definitely it's worth analyzing allof them extensivelyand the way we're going to do that isusing a HTTP proxy. So hopefully youhave one which is either going to beBurpuite or Kaido. And if you don't haveone then I've made a video about how toset them up. So go watch that or any ofthe other tutorials online. But beforewe actually start hacking or actuallylooking at any of the features, we wantto actually set up a few accountsbecause to actually to actually unlocksome of the features, you'll need to goa few extra steps. So the number onestep is obviously just going to beregistering to the website and actuallycreating an account. And what I like todo is actually create two at the sametime so I can test things like idors andprivilege escalation. So I havesomething here called uh I think this iscalled Firefox containers something likethat. But basically uh I can justhop in here and I can basically open uptwo containers and this is going toseparate my cookies on each of these uhplatforms which means that I can havetwo different accounts open. If you'regoing to lean very heavily into testingauthorization, so things like idors andbroken access control, I woulddefinitely recommend you to get a pluginto actually test this for you passively.And this is just going to speed up yourprocess a lot rather than having to goin and change the cookies every time.You can just kind of passively use theapp while testing for things like doors.And the way you're going to do that isI've just done this on Kaido, butthere's also a really similar plugin onBYU, which basically does the samething. You're going to like see how theapplication authorizes each user. Andthen you're just going to come in here.You're going to like add a cookie sayyou're going tohave one user which is going to be likeyour admin user. have one user who'swhich is going to be like yoursay your like um normal user. Okay, thatwas supposed to be a hookie or whatever.And then you're going to come in here.You're going to turn on your passivescanning. And then as you're using theapplication, the authorized plugin isgoing to be actually testing the thingsfor you. And it's it's going to be doingthis for API requests as well as can geta little bit annoying and there's a lotof configuration for this. You're goingto want to probably not have thisrunning for every single endpoint. Butthis can also speed up your process alot. And I do recommend using pluginsfor something like this. I'm not areally like aggressiveidler hunter or I don't reallyspecialize in that area. So I don'treally use a lot of these pluginsmyself. However, if you are going to dothat, if you're a beginner and it's oneof the only things that you can reallylook for, then I would recommend atleast getting a plug-in for this, right?It's just going to save you a lot ofwork. And in the end, that that's goingto help you find idors that other peopleare missing just because if other peopleare wasting time doing stuff like this,then you might as well not be and thenyou're going to find more books, right?If you're going to lean into doing likethe two user thing like having the userand the admin and you're going to testlike every feature for an idor andyou're going to go over and make likeyour Excel spreadsheet then at least forthe love of god have this pluginactually helping you out as well.There's one more in kaid though I knowthat allows you to quickly switchbetweenyour users insideactual request which could be very handyas well. Honestly, that that's probablyeven useful