if you're not doing theall the like what's it called the idlerstuff I think. Yeah, this is calledautoify which is going to basically putlike two buttons on like your requestpage. Like here you have like a requestpage. It's going to add two buttons hereto switch between your user and adminand it's going to let you do that veryseamlessly. But honestly, that'sprobably worth getting as well. I don'thappen to be using that one at themoment. But yeah, do use plugins to makeyour life easier, please, because thenyou're going to be finding more idors. Ithink this also works as an extension inBurpsweet where you can have like yourrequests colored, which is pretty nice.So,I'm just going to create those twoaccounts now. And maybe make thatpassword a little bit simpler.Like so.sampleI will sayagain to Gmail2 3 4.5 6 already registered apparentfive sure [laughter]okay we have two accounts now set up seethat we've immediately unlocked a lotmore features so if I was to kind ofwrite down everything that I can test onthis website what I would say is we canprobably test this profile, check theemail. We can test these blogs here. Wecan test creating a new blog. We cantest this log out feature to see if thesession cook gets removed. We can testsigning up to see if if we can sign upas an existing user or uh potentiallylike a pre-account takeover and testobviously logging in. So, there's a lotto test on this website and instead oflooking at them at once, we're going toanalyze them individually. So startingoff with creating this blog, right?So different features will probably havedifferent vulnerabilities associatedwith associated with them. So like a webhook feature might associated withsomething like SSRF while creatingsomething like using an API might havemore like door type vulnerabilities.So the way I would start doing this isto basicallyjust use the website normally butinclude some payloads in here. Soincluding payloads like uh XSS is a bigone and then another one is somethinglike serverside template injection whichis less seen nowadays to be honest. So Iwould probably focus on the uh cross-itescripting payloads and what I wouldalways do is try and get the workflow.So features can have more than onerequest and they often have more thanone. For example, signing up might belikeuh basically sending a request to anauthorization domain. That authorizationdomain might send a request back like asingle sign on feature. So there's athere's uh there's different um there'smany HTTP requests that can be lookedat. And when we're looking at features,we're going to look at all of themtogether. So I'm just going to send thiscreate the block thing to the uh HTTPrequest. And I think in this case, it'sjust going to be one request. Yeah, it'sgoing to be run request.So that's basically going to be thefeature that we're going to look atright now. It's just going to becreating the blog and seeing whathappens. So we've included our payload.You can see this creator ID here. Sothat potentially will point to an IDORM.We also want to have a look at for CSRFin this case. Uh it's a JSON responsetype and it doesn't seem like there'sheaders. So I don't think we'll be ableto execute a CSRF here either. And interms of authorization, we have a JWTtoken which is normally fairly secure aswell. So I think the main twovulnerabilities that we want to test forin this feature is going to be to lookfor the door which we're going to testfor in a minute and cross- sitescripting.So let's see if anything fired. And Ithink we managed to get a HTML injectionhere. Yeah. So it seemed like we wereable to inject the HTML tag here.So that's good. Now, as well as that, Iwant to test for the IDOR. So the way Iwould do that is on my second account, Iwould come hereand I would basically try and create ablog as well here. Oops, I didn't meanto do that.Okay, let's go a new blog. Let's go blogtitle.And then I want to do this and we'll saysomething five.Submit it. And then I would just copythis it here. Can even forward thatactually.So if we for example insert that hereand then just call it likeum ID door.So see like it went through correctly.And if we stop intercepting there wehave ID door.AndI think I I was doing that on thisaccount, was I?I'm a bit lost now. What does the JWTsay? So now I kind of want to properlytest for this door. So hopefully we'regoing to keep track of which user IDsare actually the correct ones this time.So we'll go like that. I'm just going todelete all of theseand we're going to keep this on the blueprofile. So we're going to keep thisrequest on the blue profile which hasthis email and we're going to see if wecan make an id door to have the blogcreated on a different email than ourown. So we'll just say I door say like 12 3 1 2 3 submit it. And we'll send thatin again here. So that's the blue iconthere. And we'll do the same thing onthis side. So we'll go new blog.We'll gointercept to here and then we'll saysomething like test one two three onetwo threeand then we submit it as well and thenwe'll just copy throughuh this here and then we'll just drop itright there. Now we're going to test forthis id door. We're going to see if wecan createone there on a different profile. And ifwe go here we see that I door has poppedup. So we just cancel the requestandyeah it's been created on the otherprofile. So we have an id door where wecan uh create a blog for a differentperson and then we also have cross-itescripting it seems.So that's good. So from that feature wemanaged to extract two vulnerabilities.You can see I've looked at this featureindividually right. So I've looked atthis just one HTTP request and I'veconsidered several vulnerability types.I'm not just looking for onevulnerability type, right? I'm not justlooking for an IDOR. What I'm doing isI'm analyzing the feature and I'mconsidering different vulnerabilitiesthat might arise from it. I think somepeople say that you should just focus onone vulnerability. I'm not really anadvocate of that actually. I think youshould focus on specific features thatyou've tested before because when you dothat, you'll be able to see the patternsand see the mistakes that developers doand pick them out more frequently. Couldsay the same thing for something like anIT door. But I think because websitesare so different and an IDOR couldliterally be like anything. It could bea vulnerability in like any system. So Ithink looking at these features willactually develop your patterns fasterthan just looking for specificvulnerability types.So that's what we've done from the blogrequest feature, right? So creating ablog, that's the first feature that Iwanted to analyze. And the secondfeature, for example, let's say, isediting our profile.So same thing here, we're going to stopthis here. We're going to say,example, testing whether or not we canuh change someone else's email, forexample. That's something that couldarise from these vulnerabilities.Um, sometimes you might be able tobypass something called emailverification where you'll get like acode in your email or something likethat. You might be able to bypassum, basically having to give that codeand you can basically say your email towhatever you want to, which in somewebsites is a very severe vulnerability.So, we're just going to have a look atwhat this request for this feature lookslike.So, we've done here. I'm going to sendit to the repeater as always. So, sendit here.And what can we say about this request?Well, it's in uh URL mode. So, it's URLencoded. Um potentially CSRF, but itdoes have the password here. So, I don'tthink we'll be able to execute a CSRFjust because the password is here.Unless you can get rid of the password,it still works, which we'll test in aminute. So the cookies are as normal. Uhthere's no particularly interestingheaders on the other side.And it seems like this is the onlyrequest for this feature because it'sjust redirecting us to profile afterthis. So what could we test for here? Wecould test for something like emailvalidation. Maybe we can try a racecondition as well.So has this actually made a change to myname? It seems like it actually has. So,wonder if we can do something like this.Maybe if we try and change the sameemail.Does that work?It doesn't appear to have really doneanything. Maybe we can likeuh not include the password in here andchange the email to something else likethis.But did this work? Wonder.Okay. Did not seem to have workedeither. So, I don't think we'll be ableto change another user's passwordbecauseumwe'd have to know what their what theirso we wouldn't be able to change theiremail because we don't really know whattheir password is. So, unless we wereable to likeumbasically likeuse our own password and then changetheir email like that. But I do notthink that's going to happen either. Wecan give it a try though. Maybe we'llsay something like this. say password islike one or something. We'll change theemail to email that we know and thenwe'll refresh it hereand go to profile and that doesn't seemto have worked. This feature seemsfairly secure because it requires yourpassword although it is beingtransmitted in plain text. So, it'sdubious whether or not that's actuallysafe. But,uh, yeah, that's basically the featurethere. And it doesn't seem like there'sanything and I think I've considered allthe possibilities here. So, sometimesthis will happen where you're going tobe testing a feature and you're justgoing to find nothing because thefeature is fairly secure. It's not likea book bounty lab. You know, noteverything's going to be vulnerable. Andin this case, I don't think this isvulnerable. It's not really giving meany indication of that. But that's okaybecause we're going to go back to ourfeature ccentric methodology. So wefinished testing this feature. Haven'tfound any vulnerabilities. That's okay.Maybe we'll just move on to anotherfeature. Right. So we've found thesefeatures here. We've been able to createblogs. We seem that there's XSS there.There's an id there. Um what else? Sowe've tried creating a new blog. We wentto the profile here.Um, let's maybe have a look at trying tosign out of this or log out. What doesthat request look like? So, we just senda request here.And it seems like all it does is justset our cookie to nothing. Does itinvalidate the cookie? I wonder like amI still able to use it here? Uh, forexample, if we were togo back here and then I imagine yes,because this is a JWT token. So,normally you're able to use them evenafter even after they're used, but wecan just check that here.So, if we It seems like we logged backin. So, potentially sessions aren'tbeing invalidated correctly. And thisJWT usually has an expiration token.So, we'll have a look here. Yeah, itseems like it it'll expire here. Likethis is Unix time. So, we could test ifit actually expires or not. possiblycould just wait for this time to happenand then see if it expires. That's couldbe another vulnerability logout featureas well. But apart from that, I'm notseeing anyumany other vulnerabilities in the logoutfeature. It seems like that's fairlysecure.So, what's left for us now? Well, nowall that's left is to test it login andregistration feature. I think I'm goingto leave that to you, though. I'm goingmight add a few more features here whenyou're testing it. So, I'll probablyprobably uh make this website a bit moreadvanced like comments and stuff likethat so you can test on it. But before Igo, I just want to say that I actuallyhave bulk bounty labs in thedescription. They're kind of like thisstyle like what I'm showing you rightnow. It's where you can go in and uhbasically try out to find bugs yourself.And I include solutions in thedescriptions.So yeah, if you want to get more of thepractical side in, then that's a reallygood option for you. Here I'm justtalking about the theory. Of course,you're not really actually doinganything unless you're obviously goingto the website here and you're testingyourself. But if you're just watching,you're not actually getting like thepractical side in. And I think my bookbounty labs are actually great for thatbecause they'll give you the skillsnecessary to actually find theseproblems yourself. All right, noPowerPoint today. We're just going to gostraight into a bit of Visual Studio,the way it's supposed to be. If youhaven't watched my video onunderstanding HTML, then please watchit. you'll be completely confused if youdon't know how to read HTMLcuz JavaScript is kind of the next stepup. And anyway, what the hell is clientside JavaScript? Client side JavaScriptwhen people refer to it means that it'sbeing executed inside the browser. Sohere it's being executed on the user'scomputer and it's not being executed onthe server. Right? Nowadays there'sJavaScript frameworks which work allwhich work on the browser as well likeJavaScript works on the browser. Butthen you can also run it on the serverlike things like no NodeJS and stufflike that for example. These aredifferent because they don't have a lotof the same restrictions as client sideJavaScript does and they're not reallyparsed the same way. They have differentfunctions as well and they're actuallyvery different from each other. So whatyou need to understand is client sideJavaScript runs on the user's browser.Server side JavaScript when we'retalking about stuff like Node.js JS willrun on the actual like cloud will run onthe server and it's not constrained thesame way that client side JavaScript isbecause it's not running in a browserand it's running on like a a differentenvironment. Right now that you knowthat let's have a look at this HTMLform. Whenever we're writing HTML we'realways going to be using client sideJavaScript and not server sideJavaScript.So where is it JavaScript? Don't see ithere. Well, it's actually not reallypracticed anymore that people will writeJavaScript inside the HTML itself.They'll actually usually import it fromfrom a different script.So, this is the way you see I have itimported as script.js.We go here. This is the JavaScript,right? So, it's basically automaticallyimporting it for us. It's the same aswriting like a script tag in here. Youknow, it's the same as writing a scripttag and then writing all that. Butinstead of doing that inside the samefile just to make it look a bit cleaner,people have shifted it away to adifferent file. You can do the samething with with um CSS as well.Basically just shifting it off into adifferent file. I think with CSS use ameta tag for or sorry use a style tag Ithink to import it. And instead forJavaScript we import it with a scriptfile. And we can set the script sourcehere. The script source will point tothe location that the JavaScript file isat. Okay, phenomenal. Let's have a lookat this JavaScript file, right?How do we write JavaScript? How do weactuallyperform stuff on behalf on on thewebsite? Like the way we usually do itis first of all, we need to find theelements that we want to actually modifyor like listen to. And the way weusually do that is right here is byfinding its ID parameter. So, we want tolike find a button or something likethat. I think I spelled button wrongthere. Oops. Just write that there. Sowe have something like this. We havebutton fetch and we'll just get it bythe ID. The ID is something that weinclude from the HTML.Like see you can see this button here.So button fetch. You can see the ID andthen we can just get it in JavaScript.This just allows us to actually get alook at it. And then whenever we want todo something to it, we can just pressthis thing. For example, if you want toadd HTML to it, we can do it like this.Or if we want to add a function to it,we can listen to an event. We can dowhat is it? What like? Oh, add eventlisten. We can do add event listen.Yeah. And then we can just add whateverevent we want to. You see there's a lotof them. Basically, there's a lot ofstuff we can listen to. If someone likehovers over the button, we can dosomething. We can like go to a function.This could be good if you want to likemake the button look nice or make somekind of animation play. You can do thatwith CSS obviously as well, but that'san option for you. One thing you mightnotice is that JavaScript doesn't havetypes. It's not a typed language bydefault. We have either constant. Soconst is something that you can'tchange. So once I define it, it's notchangeable. Or you can have like a letones like a let is something that we canchange. It's like a variable. You canalso have var, which is another one. Inever use that though. I just use thosetwo.Yeah, that's the main two things. That'show we define variables. They're nottyped. So it's not like you know youcall like Java, Java will have like insand strings stuff like that. JavaScriptwon't. That's why they're actually twovery different languages. Don't don'tget them confused. Java and JavaScripttwo different languages. There isactually another language calledTypeScript which is kind of a Microsoftpatch to this because they wanted toactually add types into it. And the wayTypeScript works is you like type likeenter something here like next to it andinstead of that you'll have types inJavaScript. But by default it doesn'thave any types. So we declare variables.They're just like this. So that was aquick overview of some of the stuff youcan do with JavaScript. Now how do wehack JavaScript? What do we actuallywant to look for whenever we read them?Whenever we do any code review, we lookfor two things. We look for sources andwe look for syncs. Sources are whereuser input will enter the code and startlike flowing through it, right? and async is where that that code will beexecuted and do something.In the case of client side JavaScript,the main vulnerability type people lookfor is cross-sight scripting. And that'sa way to execute JavaScript code on theuser's website based on some kind ofuser input that we control. The reasonthis is bad is because throughJavaScript, we can do stuff like stufflike reach API endpoints with the user'scookies and credentials.That means that if we were able to docross-ite scripting on a website, wecould have the user perform an actionsthey did intend to. You see here thisfetch request, right? This fetch requestcan go up to like an API or somethinglike