This is the video you've been waitingfor. I'm about to take you through thegreatest technology release of the last50 years. Open Claw has taken the entireworld by storm. And for good reason. Itis a 247 super intelligent AI employeethat does work for you around the clock,even when you sleep. The challenge is itcan be super complicated. And because ofthat, 99% of people aren't getting thefull power out of this technology. Ifyou use it the right way, you cancompletely change your workflows inlife. If you use it the wrong way, it'sjust another chat GPTbot. In this video,I will cover every single aspect ofOpenClaw. From how to install it to howit works to security to use cases thatwill change your life. Whether you're anOpenClaw pro or have never touched acomputer in your entire life, you'regoing to get something out of thisvideo. So, let's lock in and get intoit. So, as I said in the intro, we aregoing to cover everything in Open Claw.So, if you are an OpenClaw pro, I highlyencourage you to skip around in thechapters down below. There's going to besomething relevant to you, no matterwhat your skill level is. I have beenusing this nonstop for the past month. Ihave invested literally tens ofthousands of dollars into it. I knowabsolutely everything there is to knowabout this tool, so feel free to skiparound, but let's start off with what isOpenClaw. OpenClaw is a 247AI employee that is just constantlyrunning on your computer findingvaluable things to do and doing them foryou. The best part is it can literallydo anything a human being can do. I'mnot joking about that. It can go on yourcomputer. It can control your browser.It can vibe code apps like you see hereright now. You can see on my screen Ihave seven different open claws activelydoing work for me in this office space.And it actually vibecoded this entiresetup that you see here by itself. Imean quite literally anything you do onyour computer, it can do itself. It canscroll Twitter for you. It can watchYouTube videos. Anything you can thinkof. I have it generating AI images forme for my thumbnails. It's amazing. Somethings going on behind the scenes thatare incredible are it's it'sself-improving. It remembers everythingabout you. So all your conversations,everything you say, every detail aboutyour life, your goals, your ambitions,your careers, your personalrelationships, it remembers that andthen improves itself based on thatinformation. For instance, if I tell itI really enjoy using codecs to vibecode, it will just remember thatforever. And every time it vibe codes,it will use codecs for that. If I tellit I'm running everything on a MacStudio, all the apps it builds will bespecifically for Macs. If I tell it Ilive in California, it'll start makingrecommendations for me for events inCalifornia. Every time you communicatewith your OpenClaw, it gets better,smarter, and more custom, which there isno other AI tool on planet Earth thathas ever done this before. It'sproactive. It does work while you sleep.Let me give you an example. So, I havemy SAS creator buddy and it is actuallyactively working on this software forme. It saw on Twitter that Elon Musk isgiving away a million dollars to the toparticle on X. So what it did was it sawthat on X. It was like, "Okay, we shouldbuild some sort of article writingfunctionality." And it built out a tonof this article writing functionality.You see here, it shipped it and I'vegained over $10,000 of recurring revenuebased on that. All of this while Islept. I woke up in the morning, it hadthe code ready, I reviewed it, thenshipped it myself once it looks good.That is the power of having a proactiveemployee. It learns about you. Itstudies things on the web. It buildsthings out and creates economic valuefor you even when you're away from yourcomputer. There has never been anothertechnology that can do that. And lastly,before we go into installation, I'mgoing to walk through step by step howto set this up. It is open source. Whatdoes that mean? It's open source. Thatmeans you can download the code and dowhatever you want with it. It iscompletely free and open source, whichallows it to be completely customizable.So if it does something you don't wantit to do, if it forgets something, ifyou want to add your own functionalityto open claw and how it works, you cando that. So for instance, I was having aconversation with my openclaw the otherday and it forgot a detail about me thatreally bothered me. So I said, "Hey, youforgot this about me. How can we makesure you don't forget anything about meagain?" It actually went and built outan entirely new memory system for itselfso it remembers everything even better.It is completely customizable and it caneven customize itself. That isunbelievable. That is why OpenClaw in myopinion is the most powerful technologyI've ever used in my life and I think itis mandatory for people to learn. So thequestion becomes, how do you install it?Do you need to buy a Mac Mini like yousee everyone doing on Twitter? Can youput it on a VPS like every other creatoris telling you to do? The answer to thatis no. There are ways to set this upcompletely for free. You don't need tobuy Mac minis. You shouldn't be puttingthis on a VPS. So there are two ways tothink about installation. You can haveit local on your desk on a device or ona VPS, a virtual private server which isin the cloud and on the web. I highlyrecommend doing this locally. I thinkdoing this on a VPS is a massivecritical mistake. Local is easier to setup. It is secure by default. If you dothis on a VPS, you have to do a ton oftechnical work to make it secure. Also,I'm going to go through security in alater chapter as well, so stick aroundfor that. but it is not secure on a VPSand you have to do a lot of work to makeit secure. Local has great integrationwith everything else you're doing inyour life and on your devices. It'sincredibly usable. It's just awesome tobe able to go on a computer and watch itwork as it does things. It's a loteasier than watching like a terminal ona cloud in a web browser somewhere. Thatmakes it incredibly difficult to workwith. And it's just also powerful. Allthese things combined make it a verypowerful tool when you're running itlocally. If you run it on a VPS, you'regetting like 20% of the power. You'rejust not getting the most out of this.And if you're going to use alife-changing technology like OpenClaw,you want to get the most power out ofit. You don't want some hamstrungversion of this technology. By the way,I'm not even joking. This is happeningin real time. My OpenClaw Henry justtexted me on my device. I don't thinkyou'll be able to see this, but he justI'll bring this up on my computer. Lookat this. He just texted me that he builtout a new tool for me. It's an approvalsterminal. I was literally filming thisvideo and he is, "Hey, by the way, Ibuilt this out for you. An entireapprovals terminal where I'll be able tolook at any tweets it generates, anyYouTube scripts, any thumbnails, any AIimages, and give it approval to poststraight from a terminal." That'samazing. That was just out of nowhere.And yes, it will text you throughTelegram or iMessage or anything you'reusing. But anyway, back to the video. Ijust thought that was incredible. Nowthat we determined VPS is not the way togo, local is the only way to go. Thequestion becomes, do I need to run outand buy a Mac Mini? Do I have to do whatyou did, Alex, and buy $20,000 worth ofMac Studios, and you're about to spendanother 20,000 on two more? No, you donot need to do that. In fact, I highlyencourage you not to do that. You caneasily run this on any device youalready have. If you have a old dustylaptop in your closet, you can pull thatout. If you have a $50 Raspberry Piyou've been tinkering around with, youcan use that as well. You don't need anysort of complex hardware for this. Sotake what you already have, installOpenClaw on it, which I'll show you howto do in a second. And then what you cando is as you're using it, as you come upwith more workflows for it, if youdecide, okay, to do this workflow, Ineed more powerful hardware, then youcan upgrade. Then you can upgrade to aMac Mini. And then you're using the MacMini, like, oh man, I could really uselocal models for this one specificworkflow. Then you upgrade to the MacStudio. You don't need to rush into$10,000 hardware. You don't even need torush into $600 hardware. You can startsimple and free and then work your wayup from there. That's what I did. So,choose a local device. If you're goingto run out and buy a new device for it,I think the Mac Mini is the best choiceby far. It is the best value incomputing for $600. For $600, you'regetting an actually incredible computingdevice. I never owned a Mac Mini before.I bought it for OpenClaw right when Istarted using it. And I thought tomyself as I was using it, man, if I everneed a new computer again, I'm justgetting the cheapest Mac Mini. It dideverything I needed it to do. It's trulyan awesome device, but that's besidesthe point. You don't need it, but if youneed a new computer, Mac Mini is mwah.So, you got your new device set up. Yougot it plugged in. You got it up andrunning. Here is how you installOpenClaw. This is super simple. I don'tget the people that have been saying,"Oh, installation's tough. Use a VPS."No, no, no, no. This is super simple.Watch this. You go to openclaw.ai. I'llput a link down below for you. Youscroll down like 3 in. You see thisquick start section here that has onesingle line command. You hit copy. Ihope I didn't lose you at this point. Ihope that's not too complicated for you.If you are on Mac, you open up yourterminal. If you're on Windows, you openup your command line. Paste in that linefrom the website and you hit enter andit's installed. All the people saying,"Oh, you need a VPS. It's toocomplicated to install it locally." Wasthat too tough? Do you need to pay someguy $5,000 to do that for you? Who arethe people paying people to set this upfor them? This is so simple. If youdon't have enough confidence in yourselfto do what I just showed you, then youneed to examine your entire life. Youput that in, you hit enter, it'sinstalled. Once you have it installed,it will take you through onboarding,which again is super simple. The peoplego online saying, "Oh, onboarding's sotough. I don't know how to do anything."Look yourself in the mirror. Do youthink this is going to be tough? Here wego. You hit yes on I understand this ispowerful and risky. You hit quick start.Then you have a couple options. First,we have our model O provider. You havemany things you can do here. We rangefrom expensive and powerful likeAnthropic to very cheap but still prettypowerful like Miniax. Then you havethings in between like OpenAI. If youalready have an existing subscriptionlike an Anthropic subscription, like anOpenAI subscription, you can just go inand plug it in and use it. If you don'thave any existing subscriptions, you cansign up for a brand new one like Miniax.Miniax is dirt cheap. You can pay like$10 a month and be able to use OpenClawwith it, and it's still a pretty goodmodel to use with it. So, you can dothat as well. Now, again, the mostpowerful option here is going to be Opus4.6. Opus 4.6 is just built for thesetypes of activities. It is the smartestmodel and it is also the most personablemodel. It has the most riz. It's thewarmest. It's the most fun to talk to.it has the most motion. The issue is isyou're going to be paying like $200 amonth for that subscription. Now, thefirst question I get whenever I talkabout Anthropic is, "Oh, am I going toget banned for this?" Does Anthropicwant you using their subscription withOpenClaw? No, they do not. Out of allthe AI companies in the world, Anthropicis the one that is most against usingOpenClaw with their subscription. I willjust say this, I've heard of peoplegetting banned from their Anthropicsubscription for doing that. I'll alsosay this. I've never met any of them.Everyone's like, "Oh, yeah. I've heardof someone who got banned, but I'venever talked to someone who's actuallygot banned." So, I don't know if this isjust a rumor going around or what it is.I'd say this. I'm not going to tell youto break terms of service withAnthropic. Wink wink. But you're free todo what you want. So, if you want to useyour Anthropic subscription, wink wink,you would choose Anthropic here and hitenter. Then, it gives you theinstructions to getting your Anthropicauthorization token. You literally copythis, open up a new terminal, paste itin. That will ask you to log intoAnthropic. You do that. That's going togive you a token, which is a really longstring of letters and numbers. Here'swhere most people mess up with this.Copy that. Don't just paste it intoOpenClaw. Paste it into a notepad. So,Apple Notes or Notepad. Then, make surethe formatting is correct. And what Imean by that, make sure there's no linebreaks or anything that's splitting upthe token. Make sure it's all just oneline. Then you can copy it from thereonce it's on one line and paste it backhere into OpenClaw and then you'll begood to go and it'll work. Open AAI hasactually been the opposite of anthropic.They've been like, "Yeah, go ahead. Wedon't care. Use it with OpenClaw." So,you can do that as well. Downside beingis their model just doesn't feel quiteas warm as Anthropic. It's not quite asfun to talk to, but it's still a verypowerful model. And if you already havea Chad GBT subscription, you're good togo. And then, as I mentioned, if youwant to go cheap, Miniax is a greatmodel to save tons of money. Will it beas warm? Will it have quite as much RZ?No. But for the money and value you'regetting, it might be the best bang forthe buck. Right after this menu, whenyou select your AI model, it's going toask you to set up your messagingservice. The coolest part about OpenClawis you don't interface with it through awebsite. You don't interface with itthrough a app that you barely ever use.You interface through it with apps youalready use today. iMessage, Telegram,Discord. This is the most fun part aboutOpen Clause. You can just text itanywhere you are. So, you're going to beable to choose which app you want touse. I highly recommend Telegram. Ithink Telegram is the best way to do it.Telegram has a bunch of really cooloptions like threading and chunking. So,it actually comes in the text likeyou're talking to an AI, which isawesome. Telegram, I think, is the bestway to do this. So, download Telegram.It's free. It's easy to use. It's easyto set up. And it will walk you throughstep by step, really, really simple, howto set it up from there. Then you'll begood to go, and you got OpenC Claw setup, and you didn't need a tech genius todo it for you. You didn't need to spend$5,000 on setup. You're good to go. Youdid it yourself for free. So, now thatyou're all set up, you've hatched yourOpen Claw, you your assistant is born.First of all, congratulations. Patyourself on the back. You did somethingthat only the top 1% of humanity isdoing right now, which is hatching anopen claw and using the most powerfultechnology of all time. You did it. Youare most of the way there to escapingthe permanent underclass. Now you justneed to use it. Once you use it, you'veescaped the permanent underclass. WhatI'm going to do is show you the firsttwo basic things you need to do withOpenClaw. Then I'm going to right afterthat go over some advanced concepts andthe mindset you need to get the most outof OpenClaw. That will be after thesefirst two use cases I'll give to you andthen we'll go into some more advancedthings after that. Again, feel free towork with me. Pause down below. Dothings side by side with the video. Skiparound to different chapters, whateveryou want. This is free form. And ifyou're feeling extra spicy, you can evenhand this video over in your OpenClawand I'll watch it for you. So, let'stalk about the two first things you needto do now that you're in OpenClaw. So,after setup, it'll give you a link tothis gateway dashboard. This is thewebsite you can use to communicate withyour open claw. This is complimentary toyour Telegram or Discord setup. You canuse either or. They're both exactly thesame thing. The first thing you need todo though is introduce yourself to youropen claw. Let's play pretend for asecond. You have your own business. Youhired a new employee. What's the firstthing you would do? You would tell themabout yourself, the company, what yourthe goals and missions are of thecompany, everything like that. You wantto do the exact same thing with youropen claw. So, open up your gatewaydashboard. Go to the chat down here. Andyou want to braindump everything aboutyou. You want to brain dump who you arein your background. So, for instance,I'd say I'm Alex Finn. I'm a softwareengineer. I studied computer science. Iwas a developer for years and then Imanaged a team of tech consultants at abig tech company. And now I createcontent about AI, build out software,and do a whole bunch of other things.I'd brain dump that all in. Then I'd gothrough my personal preferences. I'dsay, I want you to be proactive. I wantyou to be autonomous. You don't needpermission for everything. Just getthings done. Advance our goals andmissions as much as you can. You'regiving your personal preferences for howyou want to work with your employee. Andthen lastly, you want to brain dump yourgoals and ambitions. This is probablythe most important part of all this.What are you trying to achieve in yourlife? For me, my goals and ambitionswere I want to create a 247 autonomouscompany that creates value. And then Iwant to be able to create content aroundevery