fishing, right?And so we would place these links insideof Jiren and Confluence and theengineers would click on them and itwould pop up an authentication box thatlooks like your Microsoft authenticationbox and they would fill it in and wewould man in the middle of thatconnection, grab their 2FA and theirusername and password, grab theirsession token and then log in as theminto other ecosystems uh that areconnected to their you know identityprovider which was Microsoft. And so,um, you know, we always like to show,you know, that these attacks have realimpact, um, to organizations and they'renot theoretical. And so pivoting is a isa core part of, um, you know, theservice that that we offer. So, yeah.Wow. Yeah, that's scary, right? But theold tricks are the best tricks, right?Hey, could you do me a favor and justact as my proxy? And then, uh, by theway, click this link real quick.Just a It's a cool thing to do.Everybody's doing it. You're going towant to click that link. It's totallyawesome. And now, uh, yeah, get back towork. and I'm going to log in as you.Nothing like a good old man in themiddle attack for your Sunday.When I when I when I teach the course, Italk a lot about like what are the skillset and skill sets needed to be a goodAI pentester. And right now it's amixture of kind of red teaming um likelike you know red teaming um trainingpentesting training and thenunderstanding you know AI at kind oflike a threat model level andunderstanding how the systems are arebuilt. Um and then just being reallycreative. uh prompt injection is thevehicle to a lot of these attacks and souh prompt injection is you know um isone thing that's never going to go away.Anyone who tells you that promptinjection is going to go away doesn'tunderstand the architecture of thesesystems. Um and uh and so you know beingreally creative in some of these wayslike that bjection way or you know orlike you know smuggling data throughdifferent you know formats or thingslike that. Um those are really creativeyou know kind of thinking ways to getyou know a lot of the narrativeinjection stuff is really creativethinking or creative writing. Um youknow like some of the best red teamersin the world are uh teachers orprofessors or doctors or people who haveor like you know creative writers. Umsome of the best AI red teamers in theworld or jailbreakers are nottraditional security people. And so Ifind that being a creative and having alittle bit of those other technicaldomains web app testing red teamingmakes for the best AI pentester rightnow. So, I talk about that in the classaquat.You know, it's it's great. Somebody uhEmanuel is asking a question in thechat. He says, "According to the the newEU AI act, high-risk providers mustconduct assessments on their systems.What set of controls, standards, scopeis considered a satisfactoryassessment?" I thought that was a greatquestion,especially with the idea of well, ifprompt injection is going to bebasically my road in and you it's reallydifficult to stop jailbreakers, right?Jailbreakers are really creative.They're really good at what they do. Andso far they have been very successful.So do we try to to tomake more robust prompts so that theyare and guardrails so that those promptsinjections are less effective or do weset up some sort of monitoring ortripwire system or guide rails afterthat? Like what what is a good systemgoing to look like that is going to bemost effective security-wise?So um I mean I can only tell you from anattacker point of view, right? Like Idon't develop the systems all day everyday. I develop them enough to know howto break them. Um which is like mostpentesters, right? Uh and you know Iconsult with a lot of companies on theirarchitectures and stuff like that. Sothat's the thing I I do. Um I can tellyou that from an attacker point of viewum even you know even using promptinjection as the vehicle which can neverbe 100% solved. I have the most I havethe hardest time with companies whoreally understand um the architecture ofengineering these systems as like kindof defense and death, right? Where theyhave multiple systems. So they have theclassifier sitting in front or sittingin front and on the outbound of myinternal query. Then they have a guardrail for you know agents um you know inthe ecosystem. And then another one thatstops us a lot of the time and um and Ithink it was Meta that put out a paperon a on a technology called camel reallyyou know recently last couple months umis data transformation. So a lot ofcompanies are making this intermediarydata transformation layer inside of theAI systems meaning they'll takeprompting from the user and rewrite itas code. Um and uh and that stops a lotof prompt injection attacks. I thinkthat their metric was like it stops like95% you know their system that theybuilt that basically takes a Pythoninterpreter and turns prompting intocode. Um uh it stopped like 95% ofprompt injection attacks. Now uh onethat system camel is not out foreverybody to use right it's stilltheoretical and exists at meta so itdoesn't matter and you know two um youknow like there there's still waysaround that but um a layered you knowapproach to engineering um and uh andkind of adding those you know guardrails is the thing that stops us most ofthe time um there's only been a fewsystems that we've hit that we haven'tbeen able to make a giant amount ofheadway on and I actually reallyappreciate that when I'm a pentester andI get stopped by good technology. That'sthe point. People are supposed to besecure, right? Um it doesn't look goodon a report, but I'll be honest with mycustomer and say, "Hey, you did a reallygreat job and this is how and why." Andthat's most of the report. But um butyeah, there, you know, a lot of a lot ofplaces like we talked about veryearlier, right, are still at that earlyphase of the journey. And so thesesystems are are very brittle, very verybrittle at the time. And they'reexpensive to secure, right? Adding thoseclassifiers and guardrails into thesesystems and the data transformationlayer is uh engineering time. it is costassociated to buying those features fromthe SAS vendors if you're using a SASmodel. Um, some people just don't havethe money for it honestly to securethem. So, um, there's just lots of stuffin the, you know, problem set right now.Wait, you're sitting here telling methis ain't free. Come on now, son.That's just not cool.You know, uh, people are ask someone wasasking in the chat about this is veryinteresting, right? This is all veryinteresting stuff. Obviously, this iswhere the future is. If you're notgetting on the AI train in some way,shape, or form, you're doing yourself adisservice. You need to be learning howthese systems at least at thefoundational elements, what are somegood I don't know if someone wanted tolearn about this stuff in a in asystematic way. There any good coursesout there? I I hear that you mightactually be doing something similar tothat in the very near future.Yeah, so we uh we do a class calledattacking AI. Um it's on our websitearcanomsec.com-sec.com.Um and uh yeah, we're running it on liveon August 8th and 20th live meetingvirtual. Um where we go through in depthour methodology. Um and uh so you canjoin this course if you're interested.If you just want though like you knowyou don't know the bud like a lot ofpeople are strapped for budget right nowyou know training budget atorganizations. if you just want to go toour newsletter executive offense. Um ournewsletter executive office I've donetwo issues on getting started in promptinjection. So there's um it is called uhhacking ele one and hacking ele two. Andif you go into these um these littlenewsletters, I give you a roundup of allof the free prompt injection labs thatexist in the industry right now. So,Gandalf, um, remove that popup. Uh,Prompting Lab by Immersive Labs, DoubleSpeak, um, you know, the prompt hacking,um, competition that Sander did, whichwas, um, uh, which just ran its secondround, uh, this month. Uh, AI goat um,and then we have another like eighthere. So, Prompt Airlines by Whiz, MyLLM Bank, um Port Swiggers Academyy's uhLLM challenges, which are free, GPTPrompt Attack, My LLM Doctor, umprofessionally a professional secure AIbot, etc. So, if you go to thenewsletter web page, you can grab um thelinks for all of these and just startlearning on your own and Googling yourface off and trying to learn some ofthese techniques. And then if you wantto look at the GitHub um so uhprompt injectiontaxonomyArcanumum our GitHub is at Arcanum SEC and thenif you go to our repositoriesum we're updating this pretty soon foryou know hopefully right before um rightbefore Wireless Hackinfest and so thishas um our methodology it'll make moresense when you see the full talk, but webreak down our methodology when we getto the prompt injection into intents,techniques, and evasions. And so, if yougo inside here to the evasion section,you can see that we have like all thedifferent types of evasions we use. Um,you know, reverse, more spaces, splats,hex, JSON, XML, um, you know, usingfictional languages, uh, things likethat in here. So, um, you can use thisas a guide to, um, you know, how to dothis type of testing. And so, versiontwo of this will be out very, very soon.Oh,very very cool. I'm pasting some linksto your your resources there. So, I I'vegot one to arcanomsec.comand I've got one to the GitHub. So,hopefully that gets everywhere wherethey need to go. So, definitely go checkthat out. But, we are out of time,brother. This was this was fun. This wasinformative. I had a feeling that thiswas going to be the way this would go.And I'm I'm very happy to to be uhproven right on that. I think everybodyreally enjoyed this. But it is now timefor us to move into the u u Q&A area. Ifyou are logged in with Zoom, you get tojoin us there. So if you're watching usthrough the Zoom, you look down intoyour Zoom panel and look for more. Undermore, there's going to be something thatsays breakout rooms. You click breakoutrooms. You'll see ask anti-ciphonanything and click the blue join button.And that's how you get there. So you cancome back stage, hang out with Jason alittle bit longer. Brian's going to bethere as well. Get your questions askedand answered. Unfortunately, we couldn'tget to everything and tons of greatquestions came through on both Discordand in the Zoom chat. Now's anopportunity to reiterate those andhopefully Jason can get at that stuff.So, very, very cool. As for you Discordusers out there, thank you so much forthe memes. Thank you so much for thelively chat. We appreciate you hangingout with us. Until next time, have agreat day. Everybody else, we'll see youin that Q&A area. Take it easy,everyone.