lifetime, because you are always seeking new experiences and initiating new schemes. If you are a negative 1, you have an overpowering ego, which makes you arrogant, selfish and uncaring. You have no feeling for others and no regard for another person’s point of view. Your stubbornness in pursuing your own path in the face of contrary evidence sets up a series of events that will lead to failure and loneliness. If you are a positive 1, and intellectually developed, you are quite original. Your keen, penetrating mind seeks many lines of expression, and your talents can manifest if you work as an inventor, designer or leader in any creative field. Your inventiveness allows you to solve problems creatively and constructively. This process will make you a skillful individual who expresses definite views positively. You are the pioneer setting out into the wilderness to carve a new life for yourself. 1 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: New beginnings, decisions, independence. The period you are now entering is a time to begin again, to make a new start. You have the ability to separate yourself from your environment and choose the path you want to take. You may be required to stand alone, to think for yourself and to learn independence. The vibrations of 1 reveal the powers within, and now you must take the reins and determine your future course. If you have depended upon others in the past, you will realize that you can no longer do so. You should set long-range goals and begin taking steps to attain them. Later, when you look back, you will realize that the events of this period were the foundation stones of your new life. Set out to develop your talents and skills. Promote your ideas, believe in yourself and don’t take “no” for an answer. Your most important experiences now will be those that you initiate; therefore, you must be decisive and firm. Great strength and self-control are required. If you fix your attention on a goal, you will attain it, because your consciousness has become an open channel of communication between your subconscious and your super-conscious. The secret is concentration. Miracles can be performed now, because you have control over all material affairs. Channel your thoughts into fertile areas where your mind’s energies can set up patterns that can be transmitted to subliminal levels. The resulting subconscious reactions will bring about the desired results. Under a 1, you should be keenly aware that your results will be qualified by your real desires. A negative use of number 1 energies can set you on a headstrong course where you insist on having your own way, regardless of the consequences. Give your individuality free rein, but guide it wisely. Under this influence, don’t be ruled by impulsiveness. Make your own plans because equal partnerships should be avoided now. Be selective in choosing friends and avoid superficial relationships. You may meet one new person who will figure importantly in your future. Experiment with the new and untried. Remain independent and decisive, and above all, have the courage to act on your dreams. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 1. The Magician. The Magician represents the conscious mind, which by concentration and single-minded attention to a specific idea or goal can draw upon the forces from above. In this way the idea or goal will take form and become a reality in the material world. By his posture, the central figure clearly indicates that he is merely a channel through which the life force flows. The identical ends of his wand graphically represent the axiom as above, so below. The horizontal figure 8 symbolizes the Holy Spirit, dominion, strength and infinity. Since a horizontal line is the ancient symbol for matter, this glyph represents the conscious mind’s control over earthly things when that mind directs the life energy through fixed attention upon a specific goal. The Magician’s undergarment, symbolizing the light of perfect wisdom, is encircled by the serpent of eternity biting its own tail. The red outer garment of passion and desire, which has no binding, may be slipped on and off at will; thus the conscious mind has perfect control. The garden is the subconscious mind cultivated by attention from the conscious mind. Red roses represent desires, while lilies represent purified thought untinged by desire. Every moment of our waking consciousness is motivated and conditioned by some kind of desire, which must be elevated to a higher plane. The Magician has at his disposal all the elements and their human counterparts: the cup, indicating water and the imagination; the sword, indicating air and the intellect; the pentacle, earth and the body; and the wand, fire and will. These 4 objects represent the letters IHVH, which is the Hebrew word for God, and the letters INRI (Iesus Nazarenus Rex Iudaeorum) which appear on the Christian cross. At this point, the God energy may be translated into the world of matter to bring about perfect manifestation and harmony. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Mars (and Mercury). The planet Mercury is assigned to the Magician, and Mars is assigned to the number 1. These two energies must be blended in order for the Magician to complete his task. Mars, the red planet, supplies the fiery energy and the desire to create. Mercury is the mind, the channel through which the desire passes and the tool with which the concentration is enacted. Without the drive to accomplish, the mind is idle and useless; it needs the demanding, propelling force of Mars to spur it on to greater achievements. When Mercury and Mars act in unison, the number 1 individual draws upon an endless source of creativity and courage. He has the vision to see what can be done, and the strength and fortitude to do it. 2 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: The number 2 suggests more than one, and you, as a 2, are acutely conscious of others as opposed to yourself. Since you are socially aware of people, you tend to gather ideas and experience through others, so you would be a good diplomat, go-between, mediator or peacemaker. Your best service is through cooperation, for your mild and gentle nature is appreciated and welcomed by all sides. You are not a forceful individual and you often prefer to stay quietly in the background. Because you are extremely aware of pairs of opposites, you find choices difficult. By remaining unobtrusive and discreet, you sometimes avoid making decisions. This quality could be a liability, but you can make it an asset by becoming an arbitrator. Your ability to see both sides of a situation, coupled with your sincerity, is a winning combination. The number 2 also implies reflection and symmetry. Your imaginative powers are increased because you can see hidden aspects of beauty in life. Your ability to detach yourself and see separateness gives your creative and inventive potentials room to grow. When we look out into the world, we see what is in front and to the sides; we cannot see behind us without turning around. However, you seem to look into reality as in a mirror, seeing every detail, even those behind you which can be seen only with the mirror. You possess the all-seeing eye. If you are a negative 2, you lack self-confidence, and are therefore indecisive and afraid to make decisions. You can be deceitful or two-faced. You are oversensitive and easily depressed if your surroundings are unhappy. If you are a positive 2, you can be of great service to others because of your ability to settle situations amicably, and you may well become the power behind the throne. 2 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Gestation, cooperation, diplomacy, self-knowledge. You are in a gestation period in which you must not assert yourself but rather must await results. It is time to collect and assimilate the experiences of the past, giving them time to grow slowly. This is a secretive period in which your affairs, situations and relationships are operating under an element of the unknown. You may not be aware of all the circumstances surrounding a particular situation, which may be in a fluctuating state. Therefore, you must maintain balance and equilibrium. Remain poised. There may be meetings, conversation and comings and goings. You should be careful of what you say about your hopes and ambitions, for your words could be misconstrued by others, either unconsciously or deliberately. Use diplomacy in all your dealings and be cautious about whom you talk with and whom you put your confidence in. Carelessness and tactlessness can cause problems in relationships, which could result in angry confrontations and deceptive acts. Be patient, considerate, tactful and receptive to other people’s ideas. Practice conciliation but not at the expense of your integrity. This is a passive, receptive time in which to reflect and listen to the voice of your subconscious mind, which collects and files every piece of information it encounters. The subconscious is now potentially producing seeds that will cause either strife, dissension, disagreements and partings, or peace, cooperation, beauty and coming together. If you exercise the positive side, you will have warm ties with other people. You can be a good mediator, go-between or agent for peace. This is a good vibration for love affairs, but be careful because you are emotionally vulnerable. Under a 2, love affairs can come and go, so maintain that balance. The future may seem unclear during this period, because hidden energies are working that will surface later. Since choices are difficult under a 2, it is wiser to postpone important moves until your mind is more decisive. This is not a particularly good time for business ventures, again because of your indecisiveness. Memories are a prime motivation for your actions now. Don’t become trapped in unhappy memories or unconscious past conditionings. Instead use the stored wisdom from your past experiences to resolve snags in a partnership, mediation or cooperative effort. We communicate with others through the subconscious. Memories stored in that subconscious determine our response to conditions, situations and people. Examine your reactions to others now, for this period tests your ability to coexist. Telepathic communication may be intense, as you have a subconscious knowledge of the real meaning behind events that are mysterious to your conscious mind. Therefore, you must tune in to what is formulating in your mind during this time, otherwise, you will remain in the dark. Number 2 is a two-way street, with ideas flowing between the inner self and the outer self. A negative use of 2 makes you act petty about trivial matters. You react emotionally to confrontations, withdrawing rather than trying to settle problems peaceably. Your emotions undermine your self-confidence and upset your equilibrium. This is a perfect time for creative people such as artists, composers, inventors and mystics to expand their consciousness through various techniques, because 2 contains latent creative powers. It is a waiting period in which the seeds of creativity are planted in the subconscious to begin the process of growth and expansion. This is also a period of wisdom in which you can see the true I AM of self by reflecting on your inner being. You should remain passive and receptive to the present active creative forces, without vacillating or being oversensitive or withdrawn. Calm, silent contemplation of the creative potential within will help you produce exquisitely beautiful art forms, innovative ideas and unique solutions to everyday problems. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 2 The High Priestess. The High Priestess symbolizes the subconscious mind, the receptive, reproductive and form building power within the human organism. The curtain behind the figure connects the two pillars of light and darkness. As the balancing power between pairs of opposites, she has no preference for either and merely awaits the concentrated effort of the conscious mind. The cup-shaped crescent Moon depicts the receptiveness and retentiveness of the subconscious mind. All memory, universal and personal, is recorded on the High Priestess’s scroll, which is partially hidden because all is not yet known; God has more to reveal. The cubic stone of truth upon which she sits represents the principles of order on which the subconscious must function for perfect fulfillment. The white cross represents the proper use of the four implements on the Magician’s table. The conscious mind formulates ideas which the subconscious accepts as suggestions and then sets about to make them realities in an orderly, progressive fashion. The High Priestess is the connecting link to the subconscious through which we must pass in order to use our conscious potential, thus calling into play the powers of the Magician, the conscious mind. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Vulcan (and the Moon). The High Priestess, key 2 of Tarot, (ruled by the Moon), and number 2, (ruled by Vulcan), join forces in bringing about gestation. (Vulcan is the blacksmith of the gods, the keeper of the flame and fireside. Many astrologers feel that the planet Vulcan is the rightful ruler of Virgo.) After an idea has been sown by the number 1 vibration, it must find a warm dark place where it can be properly nurtured, away from the light and clamor of the outer world. The idea seeks refuge in the depths of the Moon-ruled subconscious, where it waits to be fed by the imagination. Like Vulcan, this formation process is not seen, but it continues, fed by the fire of determination. Vulcan, the mythological tender of fire, aids the nurturing and protecting influences by making sure that the fire or desire to bring forth this seed does not flicker and die. A number 2 individual has a quiet receptive personality, in which the seeds of cooperation, patience and prudence are nurtured. These seeds will eventually manifest in useful products and objects of beauty that will benefit the whole world. 3 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: 3 is the number of the performing arts, and you are a performer. You love life, the joy of social contacts, entertainment and new experiences. Your bright active nature radiates like the Sun to warm the lives of others, and your ease with people draws them to you like a magnet. You will always have many admirers. You are an extremely expressive person, and you should develop your skill with words and cultivate the art of conversation. You can influence others through your ability to communicate about life in a grandiose fashion. Develop and put to work your talents for entertaining and communicating. You could do well as a teacher, artist, lawyer, judge, writer, nurse, pastor or priest. Travel will probably be an important part of your life, because you need to become involved in many experiences and investigate new opportunities. Your varied interests make your thinking broad and all-encompassing. You like to be on stage, to entertain and live the good life. Recognition is important to you, for you need to know you are appreciated. You like to wear nice clothes, and are or should be aware of your appearance, because performing depends on how you look and project yourself. A negative 3 does everything in a big way: eating, drinking, loving and living. You can be too self-indulgent, and extravagance could be your downfall. You tend to overact and exaggerate situations, turning mole-hill problems into mountains. Friendships will then be superficial. You may try to avoid responsibility and live just for the moment. Too much talk may make you a gossip. As a 3, you should learn not to spread yourself too thin, which is an easy trap to fall into, with your many talents and interests. You should master at least one talent. As a positive 3, you will be very lucky in speculative matters, investing, gambling and taking chances in general. You will have many lucky opportunities through your friends, who are most eager to assist you in every way. Your luck is derived from your positive, outgoing attitude, which induces people to want to help you. You should avoid occupations that keep you confined in close quarters or demand long hours of isolation, because you need to move around and express yourself in order to do your best work and be happy. 3 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Growth, travel, entertainment, self-expression. This is usually a happy time, during which previous difficulties are overcome and resolved. You are bursting with the joy of living; and your optimistic outlook makes you want to express yourself socially and to indulge your desires. Many events that occur now will add to your enthusiasm. You will definitely acquire money during this cycle. You may receive a raise at work, a long-lost relative might leave you an inheritance, or you might win a sweepstakes. Luck seems to be on your side, but remember that luck is merely the outward manifestation of your present positive attitude. You are creating your own luck. There is growth and expansion in all areas of your life at this time. For some, this may mean marriage or the birth of children. For others, birth will occur in the creative arts or in mind expansion. Recognition of your talents in writing, painting, sculpting or acting is possible, so now is the time to write the article, paint the picture or present the project you’ve been thinking about for so long. Publication and recognition from authorities come under a 3. Study a foreign language, take elocution lessons or any other available means to develop your expressive capabilities. Spend time and money on your personal appearance, because how others see you is extremely important now. You might attend a weight-reducing course or yoga class to reshape and firm your body. Pay particular attention to the way you dress, and go through your wardrobe, replacing worn and outdated clothes. You will probably find yourself on a buying spree. Business mixes well with pleasure now, so involve yourself in the social aspects of living. The people you meet will be impressed with your manner and articulateness, and some of them will be in a position to aid your career. Give parties, join groups, attend seminars and generally become involved in meeting and being with other people. Don’t make any commitments now that will bind and encumber you in any way. You need freedom and time to cultivate personal self-expression. If you’ve always wanted to travel, this may be your opportunity. Long distance travel comes under a 3, so you may have the chance to expand through contact with other cultures or ways of life. You will be center-stage now, so enjoy it, bask in the warmth of others’ attention and radiate the joy you feel to enhance the lives of those you touch. Listen to your dreams, for they can bring precognitive messages and alert you to potential future opportunities. This is a productive period in all areas of your life. The negative aspects of a 3 lead to scattering your energies and over-indulging in all phases of living. Talking too much can lead to gossip and deceit. Extravagance leads to dissipation. Taking unnecessary risks leads to losses. Jealousy produces loneliness. Overeating, excess drinking and indiscriminate drug consumption can have disastrous results. Be aware that exhaustion of the valuable resources of this period causes dissipation and turns potentially fertile soil to wasteland. There is an ancient saying: “Beware of your wishes, for you will surely get them.” If you desire anything strongly enough, that desire will surely come to pass. And once it is a reality, you may decide you really didn’t want it after all. During this time, your desires can become a reality, so begin now to screen your wishes. Be certain that what you desire is right and good for you and for all others concerned, and then enjoy this happy and productive period. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 3. The Empress. The Empress is also an aspect of the subconscious mind. While the High Priestess, number 2, is memory, in number 3 we find the subconscious response to that memory which produces growth through the imagination. In contrast to the virginal High Priestess, the Empress appears pregnant, as does the landscape around her. The Empress produces. She is the great mother surrounded by love, beauty and growth. The conscious mind, key 1, cannot produce; the subconscious mind, key 2, cannot reason; it takes a combination of 1 and 2 to produce manifestation, or key 3. The trees, dress and wheat symbolize the ripening that takes place in the subconscious mind. The stream is the life stream, the stream of consciousness. Falling into the pool, it represents the union of the sexes or the union of the conscious and subconscious minds. Her yellow hair, symbolizing the super-conscious mind, is tied by green leaves, or bound sunlight, as the leaves have captured the sun’s rays. The twelve stars on her crown are the twelve zodiacal signs or the twelve months, thus representing time itself. In the same vein, it takes time to bring our desires into manifestation. Her scepter represents her dominion over the world of creation through love, the Venus glyph. She is the epitome of creation and abundance, reminding us of the biblical passage, “And there appeared a great wonder in the heavens; a woman clothed with the Sun, and the Moon under feet, and upon her head a crown of twelve stars. And she being with child cried, travailing in birth...” (Revelations 12 verses 1 and 2). Older versions of the Empress showed her with the crescent Moon beneath her feet. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Jupiter (and Venus). From the foregoing delineations of number 3 (Jupiter) and key 3 (the Empress, Venus), you can see how the attributes of Venus and Jupiter work in conjunction to bring about productivity. Venus seeks to bring harmony and beauty into whatever environment she appears. Her keen sense of justice manifests through a fine symmetry, and her loving nature seeks to make others as well as herself comfortable. When Venus unites with Jupiter, who desires to expand services for humanity through orderly growth, an extremely productive and fertile situation results. This productivity is distinctly recognizable in number 3 individuals. They are extremely sociable and indulge not only themselves but also their family and friends. They work to bring about social harmony by using their very expressive and creative talents in such fields as acting, social work, counseling and the law. Their honesty, generosity and affability make them extremely popular with almost everyone. 4 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: Symbolically, the number 4 and the four-sided square are synonymous. As a child, you spent time in a square crib and playpen. As you grew older, you drew pictures of a square house in which you and your family lived. You played with square blocks and most likely romped in a square yard. Although the perimeters of your world grew as you matured, still the boundaries defined the extent to which you could expand. Because these boundaries protected you from harm, the square became imbedded in your subconscious as a symbol of security and structure, a comfortable, productive and organized system of existence. The earth was formed on the fourth day of Creation; therefore, symbolically, all earthly things come under a 4. As the recipient of this vibration, you are a very creative builder, an individual who puts form and structure into life. You build tangible objects because you need to see visible results from your efforts. Carpenters, masons, draftsmen and all the building trades come under a 4. You are a good worker. An employer can rely upon your stability, steadiness, honesty and sense of responsibility. You are the salt of the earth type who realizes the importance of a sound foundation upon which to build the future. By upholding the traditions of the past you reinforce your sense of security in the present and the future. Your naturally cautious, industrious nature makes you a saver. You are a patient planner, and you insist that your finances be organized. Because of this predilection toward thrift, practicality and wise handling of finances, you would be a good banker or financier. Law, order and regulation are keywords for a 4. You have an inborn respect for supervision and control. Many 4’s work in government or law, the foundations of society. Such occupations require in-sight and the ability to examine situations and make judgments based upon reason, all of which you, as a 4, are extremely capable of doing. Because a 4’s insight is based on sound reasoning, this number produces the inventor who creates practical objects for the home or business. This ability also manifests itself in farming, mining, geology and gardening; those occupations which produce valuable products from the earth. A negative 4 can be a workaholic whose stem and sterile outlook makes life a plodding drudgery. You can be stingy, unfriendly and alone, boxed in by secure walls of your own making, which protect you from the outside world, but also prevent you from enjoying relationships with others. This person feels limited and restrained because of a fearful need for security. As a positive 4, you have the ability to build a useful world through sound reasoning, where your hard work and patient perseverance will benefit others in a tangible way. 4 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Work, finances, building, practicality. 4 brings the need to define and order things. At this time you must measure, classify, record, regulate and compose yourself as well as your affairs and your environment. You must attend to everyday, earthly matters and handle them through your own efforts and actions. You will gain materially now through honest toil, as this is a productive period in which the creative drive can be controlled and directed. For males, this time can indicate virility and fatherhood. Controlling your daily activities will allow you to reap material rewards. Money and finances are very much a part of this cycle, so you should be economical and practical. Set up a budget and pay debts on all levels: materially, physically, mentally and spiritually. This is the ideal time to save for that special vacation or the home you’ve always wanted. Surveying land, planning and building a new home, or refurbishing or reconstructing an existing one are very likely pursuits under a 4. There may be obstacles that must be solved with patience and determination, but if you have the courage to struggle through all opposition, you can make great strides. During this period reason reigns. The number 4 is symbolic of a square window, through which we see; therefore, you must exercise vision, insight and analysis. Because you are able to see into the heart of any situation, you may be called upon to use your reason and judgment, perhaps in the judicial system as a juror or a courtroom witness. Since the judicial system is the foundation upon which a just society is built, under this vibration you may have to uphold the traditions that regulate and insure the continuity of that system. Previously hidden aspects of the past may be revealed during this period, which allow you to correct faulty judgments from an earlier time; this is because the 4 implies the door of opportunity through which you can pass into a new life. Since 4 rules the physical aspects of living, sensual pleasures are available to you now. You can have a physically rewarding relationship with a member of the opposite sex. However, the crux of this vibration is responsibility, work and accomplishment. It is a time to make solid foundations - financial, physical or mental - for your life. Business and personal relationships can grow, and lasting ties of friendship may be developed now. Financially, you will earn in direct proportion to your output. Exercise and take care of your body, your physical home. When 4 is centered on the material plane, its energies manifest as creative abilities. When these energies are spiritually centered, new psychic and spiritual realms can be contacted. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 4. The Emperor. This card, ruling our conscious existence, represents reason, which is a function of the conscious mind. The Emperor therefore rules over and sets in order the reasoning, conscious elements of the material world. He supervises and controls through his ability to discern the truth in any given situation. It is his wisdom in handling affairs systematically that has placed him upon the throne. The Emperor is the Magician grown older and now in a position where the efforts of the 3 previous stages bring about concrete rewards in power and dominion. His helmet is red and gold, representing Mars and the Sun. The Sun is exalted in Aries, which rules this card, as shown by the rams’ heads adorning the throne. The Emperor’s thoughts have been channeled through personal effort (Mars) into productive and useful implementation, a process which has crowned him with authority (the Sun). He holds the world in his left hand and the Tau (T) cross in his right. This cross is the T-square used in mathematics, geometry, surveying and planning. He has attained his position through proper planning. His throne, simply carved of stone, is symbolic of the body, which needs long and arduous work before it is perfected. The Empress, 3, and the Emperor, 4, are intended to show that what you sow with your conscious mind (1) you expand through 2 and 3 and finally reap through 4. You are what you alone have made of yourself; you have the power and control. If you are dissatisfied, start with 1 and sow the proper seeds. Then follow the orderly progression through 2 and 3, and at 4, you will have what you want. This is the message of the first four cards of the Tarot. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Earth (and Aries). Earth, assigned to 4, and Aries, ruler of the Emperor, key 4, are the components of this vibration. 4 is a symbol of form, manifesting in the four-sided square, or the cube, a solidified square. As such, this number logically rules all things that have