in this world. 40/4 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Finances, building, birth. This is a good planning period. New techniques can be implemented now. Building a business, a house, or both, are possible ventures. You are advised to use caution in all financial dealings; handle your money wisely. Whatever you plan can be successful if you invest wisely. Set up a budget and put your affairs in order. This period will require a systematic existence; only then will your subconscious carry out the plans you have devised. Messages of all kinds are forthcoming. The birth of a child, the beginning of a business enterprise or a new lifestyle may be announced. These affairs all require that old habits be left behind; therefore, breaks and separations are a necessary part of this cycle. Be discriminating about those in whom you place your confidence. Obstacles may present themselves; however, the solution to these problems will uncover past procedures that impeded your progress. With this knowledge, you realize that the obstacles are in reality a blessing. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Page of Cups. This quiet figure is beautifully dressed in the lotus-decorated costume of red and blue which indicates that the conscious and subconscious mind have made the wearer sure of eternal life. The lotus is a self-renewing plant, which contains both male and female elements. The Page’s cup contains the fish, symbol of the divine; therefore, love and passion have turned to love and compassion for humanity. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Third decan Cancer. The Piscean influence which underlies this decan of Cancer gives you literary ability. You are usually successful in business because your intuition and practical good sense make you a keen investor. You are gifted in making statistical judgments, careful in matters of finance and honest in business dealings. You are influenced by the feelings around you and prefer a peaceful, orderly environment in which to live. 41/5 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are offered all the pleasures of the world in abundance. This number carries divine help and protection. You are extremely versatile because you are able to reflect upon the inspirations you receive. Through spiritual nourishment you translate concepts into reality; you create form where only ideas existed. You are thus able to enjoy all the material benefits the world has to offer because truly your cup runneth over. You radiate love, faith and enthusiasm. You show courage when things go wrong. You can tackle anything, and usually do, with considerable success. Inspiration and energy combine for speedy and satisfactory results. You are a pioneer, you enjoy change, but desire practical and useful results. Love, happiness and productivity follow you. Since you enjoy many of the pleasures of material living, you must control a tendency to indulge your senses. A pleasure-seeking personality can result and your abundant creative faculties are diffused in sensual pursuits. Your creativity extends to the family, and you can produce many children. You will provide them with a loving, comfortable home. By applying your talents toward useful goals, you can achieve all the material wealth and comforts anyone could possibly desire. You can also create a loving atmosphere from which others can draw inspiration and nourishment. 41/5 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Love, abundance, fertility, change. Joy and contentment fill your life now. The abundant rewards of past efforts are available, and you radiate happiness and confidence. You enjoy the beauty and pleasure surrounding you and feel good about yourself as a person. Creative forces are at work here, producing not only material goods but relationships as well. The love of your life may appear, or existing ties may be deepened. The birth of children brings happiness and reinforces your belief in the goodness of life. Conditions are changing; new opportunities will alter many habits and situations. Take your time making decisions because impulsiveness can overturn all the good effects of this period. Hasty moves in business can bring losses. Love relationships may falter if the selfish appetites of one party are indulged at the expense of the other. Use the creative and potentially fulfilling vibrations of this cycle wisely, and you can expect your wildest dreams to come true. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Ace of Cups. A white dove, symbolic of peace, truth and the Holy Spirit, drops the seal of Jehovah into the cup. The five streams of water emanating from the cup represent the five senses overflowing into a lotus-filled pool. When we give our sensitivities and emotions, we create an unending supply of love. The cup is held by the guardian angel or the Hand of God, from which cosmic inspiration flows. Falling drops of water take on the form of yods, the divine power. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: The element water (Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces). All the qualities of the water signs are built into this vibration. You have the loving, protective nature of Cancer, the deep creative understanding of Scorpio and the sensitive, reflective qualities of Pisces. You have courage when things go wrong. Your inspiration comes through receptivity and reflection. 42/6 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You have a friendly, cooperative nature. Your desire to help others and your complete dedication to peace and understanding equip you well for the ministry. Professional work along artistic lines is your forte as well. You would be a fine singer. You have a creative imagination and a strong leaning toward the mystical. You should make an effort to train your intuition along practical lines. You need an outlet for your inner urges and a means to exercise your imagination. You could find it through writing stories. Children’s stories might appeal to your sensitive nature. You see beauty everywhere and should express it in a tangible way for others to enjoy. Your personal charm and your pleasure-loving, generous nature draw others to you. You intuitively realize their needs and work to create a happy atmosphere wherever you are. You need the sociability of friends and would not be happy living alone. Since you are hospitable and repay kindness with kindness, there is little danger that you will have a solitary life. However, those who try to fulfill their own selfish needs will, under this vibration, feel lonely and misunderstood. Home and personal relationships are important to you; you need to be discriminating to control the emotion involved here. You believe in doing the right thing and sharing equally in all relationships and binding contracts. When you make commitments, others are assured of an honest and abiding bargain. 42/6 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Contracts, marriage, meditation. There is a blending of minds now, a harmony on the mental plane that seeks to bring ideas to a common meeting ground. Contracts and agreements that have been pending can be settled amicably and fairly with both sides gaining equally. Your cooperative attitude creates an atmosphere of happiness and harmony. Worthwhile friendships will form and bring personal fulfillment. This is a vibration of love. For some it brings love affairs, for others, engagement and marriage. This is also a meditative period in which you will be urged to give form to your inner feelings. Beauty appeals to the sense of harmony that you are experiencing. Time spent alone should be used to get in touch with those inner feelings and to bring them out where others can appreciate them. Begin to develop any creative talent you possess. Since the keywords now are love and cooperation, you will encounter situations in which these qualities must be exercised. Do not allow misunderstandings to lead to separations; then the meditative aspects of this cycle will degenerate into loneliness. Seek peace through understanding and you will benefit from any contacts you now make. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Two of Cups. The man and woman are exchanging cups to demonstrate the law of give and take. This is also the symbol of the duality of creation. The winged lion above the caduceus is a composite symbol meaning: “The adept who has power to interpret to others knowledge of the higher worlds.” The woman is dressed in white with a blue outer robe to show the purity underlying the soul or subconscious. The man’s costume has a yellow background which stands for consciousness and is decorated with trefoils symbolizing the trinity. The house in the background represents the creativity of humanity or the united effort of male and female. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: First decan Cancer. You are receptive, sensitive, affectionate and usually psychic. You meet people with graciousness and charm. You need to guard against being too sentimental or effusive, as others may misinterpret your motives. You are very creative and need interesting activity to provide balance in your life. Home decorating or other types of art appeal to you. You would be most content not being famous but rather living a happy, peaceful life, surrounded by a loving family. If there is a keyword in this decan, it is love. 43/7 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are a true friend, affectionate and tolerant of others’ whims and foibles. Your pledge of friendship endures many tests. Your sympathetic nature and sense of justice reach out to the young and the underprivileged; you are always willing to help someone in need. Your gentle nature may hide a strong determination to reach your goals. You know when to be silent. Clear thinking is one of your best attributes, and it is most effectively developed in constructive activity. Your positive approach to life, temperate habits and ability to make logical decisions create an atmosphere for success. Fulfillment and abundance are the fruits you pick as the result of your clever productive actions. Your achievement of power and financial security allows you the freedom to enjoy the comforts you have earned. You enjoy being in a position of power. Your power extends to healing, in situations where the energy you possess can be transferred to the energy fields of others, thus creating a new life for them. You are a dependable person with poise and a sense of balance. Your strong intuitive powers and discernment are based on your ability to accumulate facts. These talents will contribute to your success as a teacher, writer or speaker, if you choose any of these professions. Whatever profession you choose, you will bring to it your constructive and creative ideas, positive attitude and fine mind. The rewards will be plentiful. However, you must control any desires to overindulge in food, drink and unhealthy relationships. Excesses will lead to physical and emotional pain. Rather, share the abundance of your life with those who are less fortunate. Such an effort increases your own store. 43/7 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Abundance, rejoicing, healing. Congratulations are in order. This is a period of rejoicing because the results of your past endeavors are now evident. You have concluded matters successfully and realized your goals. The rewards are yours. If your pursuits have been professional, you now realize financial increases, promotion and business expansion. If health has been an issue, healing takes place. Family difficulties smooth out, and you are overwhelmed by success, peace and extra benefits that you are now enjoying. This is a restful vibration, so loosen up and enjoy it. Follow your routine or take a vacation, but maintain the status quo. Pushing new ventures and pursuing new avenues is not part of this cycle. Sit back and relax. Be careful that your celebration does not degenerate into overindulgence. Too much of the good life can bring on physical discomforts. If you select your partners indiscriminately, relationships can suffer. So eat, drink and be merry in moderation. You have earned it. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Three of Cups. This key depicts the celebration of bounty and good fortune. Three maidens jubilantly toast the happy outcome of their work—the abundant harvest pictured around them. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Second decan Cancer. The sensitivity in this area of the zodiac is subtle and inclined toward the occult. You are progressive, deeply emotional and sentimental. Your experiences become more definite; your goals, more clearly defined. You are somewhat secretive about your personal life and often silent and introspective. You know instinctively when to talk and when to listen. You may be surprised at your strength in an emergency. You prefer to lead an even-tempered life, but you can really spring into action if the occasion demands it. You fully enjoy the good things in life. You have the capacity to accomplish skilled work in valuable enterprises. 44/8 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: This is a master number and, as such, demands more from you. You are a steady worker. You will persevere in your chosen goal because you exercise discipline. You conform to the demands of a situation, and make the best of it. You prefer to be in an environment where steady progress brings concrete results. Your success comes from useful enterprises. You are extremely resourceful and cautious. You plan your actions well in advance. You could achieve distinction in political or military affairs, where self-discipline and expediency are the keys to success. You are brave in battle. You possess the will to face adversity and the energy to overcome obstacles through sustained effort. Common sense and logic back up your judgments. You enjoy order and stability. Yours is a conventional approach to life. There is a great deal of the materialist in you. Guard against too deep a desire for fame and possessions. This can lead to overwork, poor health and material losses. You then close yourself into an ignorant, do-nothing world and become discontented and frustrated. Therefore, you should investigate new opportunities to broaden your horizons. Make room in your orderly existence for things you did not plan on. You are well developed physically, mentally and emotionally, but you may be missing the intuitive link. The opportunity to develop this side of your character is present. Work on becoming aware of what you cannot see; tune in to your inner self. When you have achieved this awareness, you can express the master number vibration. Serve the material needs of the world through productive actions, actions first inspired on the inner plane. You can supply the comfort and common sense advice that help keep this world together. 44/8 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Karma, re-evaluation, opportunity. In this master number period, you are being offered an opportunity to reevaluate your present circumstances. You have the time to contemplate the value of the rewards you are now receiving. If past efforts have been productive, you will see an increase in status and finances. Others will bestow kindnesses upon you; friends and family gather and increase. However, past efforts may only bring unwanted and restricting burdens. You may want to give up, sit back and do nothing. If you feel discontented and closed in, you need to establish new priorities and set worthwhile goals. The experiences of this period may graphically depict the missing link in your makeup. Chances are the material world is well represented. Things are happening physically, and you are reacting emotionally, which sets you to work mentally. Your mind contemplates and wonders if this is all there is. At this moment you are reaching out for the Hand of God or the intuitive side of your nature. You are looking for the answer that puts your world into perspective. That answer can be found only within yourself. You can find that answer now and give it form by sharing with others the rewards or experiences this cycle has given you. Your advice and wisdom will set others upon their path of liberation. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Four of Cups. The figure is seated in quiet contemplation and concentration. He sees three full cups in front of him, and he seems unaware of a fourth cup being offered by the Hand of God coming from the cosmic cloud (hidden wisdom). If he seeks divine aid with patience, meditation, self-control and persistence, it is available to him. His calm physical appearance shows that mental activity is what brings results. He must choose a worthwhile goal or the proffered cup could be lost. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Third decan Cancer. This decan will be felt more on the mystical or inner plane than on the extroverted personality plane. Thus you are more sensitive to vibrations around you or those coming into your aura from outside contacts. You are kind, hospitable and sympathetic. You may be attracted to a career in nursing, dietetics or some phase of social work dealing with the handicapped. A life of service to others befits this vibration. Your ideals are high, but you need to keep your dreams practical. 45/9 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: This is a highly sensitive, mystical vibration. You will not be satisfied with worldly success alone. The positive energies of this vibration can lead to high psychic development. You sympathize with the unfortunate and take on their heartaches. You love to teach and serve; you have the fortitude to face emergencies with courage seldom found in other number vibrations. Working with groups and organizations can be satisfying; you can effectively teach them through your own experiences. You are secretive, reserved and proud. You are determined to successfully carry out your ambitions, as you are also receptive to new ideas, willing to work, and feel no limitations in doing so. This drive can be detrimental if it causes you to overwork. There is conflict between your emotions and your common sense. You need to practice control and conserve your energy. Do not go to extremes in pursuit of your ideals. Emotional dissatisfaction arises only when you dwell on the past. Disappointments, sorrow and loss ensue when you stubbornly cling to old ways that have outlived their usefulness. Use the experiences of the past as stepping-stones to higher elevations. Then through your words and example you can teach others to renew their lives and build a brighter future. You are affectionate and generous. If things go wrong, you are eager to set them right. Look at what you have as resources, rather than at what you do not have or have lost. Then you will achieve the delicate balance necessary for your happiness. With patience and hope, stressful situations can be transformed into lessons which you can teach to others. This vibration often produces an early marriage and many children. 45/9 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Old friends, partial gains, learning experiences. There can be gains and inheritances during this cycle, though perhaps they are not up to your expectations. You should not brood over any partial losses that occur now. Use what you gain to initiate something new. Do not spend your energy regretting past mistakes. Learn from them and proceed onward. There will be sufficient gains here for you to realize that a better use of your personal energy will bring even more reward the next time around. An old friend may return for a visit and remind you of your past. Use discrimination in dealing with those you encounter; don’t expect too much from them. When you have successfully learned from the past and let go of it, you will form new alliances that will open doors to the future. You will become aware of some of your own resources which you have overlooked until now. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Five of Cups. A cloaked figure looks sorrowfully at three spilled cups, not realizing that there are two cups left filled. This indicates that losses should not be brooded over. By turning around to face a new start, other resources are always found with which to carry on. In other words, do not waste energy regretting past mistakes; learn from them, and go ahead. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: First decan Scorpio. You have definite goals and a fixed determination to carry them out. You feel a sense of inner power, which may be expressed as pride or self will. You are strongly attracted to the occult. You seem to have boundless energy; you quickly bounce back from any defeat with renewed vigor and quietly go about your business. You know the power of silence. Many strongly motivated reformers or missionaries are born in this decan of Scorpio; the desire to change things for the better seems inherent. You are a tireless worker when motivated by your ideal. 46/1 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You have a dominating personality. You work and play with equal passion. You win others through your charm and wit, cloaking your strong will under a gentle manner. You are a natural leader. You like to be the center of your world and must guard against taking advantage of those who admire your popularity, or those who could be misguided by your fine showmanship. You have high ideals and could choose a profession in science or philosophy. With your highly developed psychic sense and strong intuition, you could also be an inventor. Any of these pursuits enable you to express your humanitarian ideals. If you choose an idealistic profession, keep your goals practical. This number often acquires money, but loses it if ideals are impractical. But this number is also willing to start again, and you can attain another fortune. Positions of power and authority are natural for you. You are strong willed and intense. You set your goal and go after it in a steady and methodical manner. You are, however, willing to share your good fortune because you are generous, warm and tender. Your ability, imagination and enthusiasm bring you success in work and play. A happy childhood and comforting memories give you the stability to venture forth in the world expecting, and therefore receiving, the best life has to offer. If you are negative 46/1 you live in the past, surrounded by memories, refusing to accept the present. You can be childish and irresponsible, thereby attracting, as a natural reaction to your output, a worthless circle of acquaintances. 46/1 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Good karma, new opportunities, success. You are now the center of attention. You may receive gifts or inheritances of some kind from situations that existed in the past. A childhood acquaintance may appear with a gift, or a kind act in the past may bear fruit today. It seems that your attentions are riveted on the past through the happy events of the present. Joy and contentment fill your heart; you should share these feelings with those around you. Your environment changes somehow. Either you find yourself in new places with new people, both of which promise good returns, or your old environment receives new vibrancy through fresh opportunities and relationships. Through subtle persuasion, you can win others to your way of thinking. They will follow your strong lead because you are presently tuned in, psychically and intuitively. You can achieve any goals you set for yourself now, if you maintain a steady application of personal energy. Your enthusiastic attitude and flair for the dramatic during this cycle impresses others and aids you in gaining the support you need to be successful. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Six of Cups. The six cups are brimming with flowers, showing fruition. The five-pointed-star flower indicates human emotions purified and transmuted into compassionate love. The childish male figure in the Fool’s cap recalls key 0, or Uranus, which, exalted in Scorpio, here implies that the highest gift is purified love. The cross, commonly called Saint Andrew’s cross, is the cross of humility. The significance is that while we “become as little children” (Matthew 18 verse 3) or believe as little children on the earthly plane, we manifest our progress. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Second decan Scorpio. Unique experiences come into your life. Sometimes it is a sorrow which quickens your sympathies or otherwise turns your ideas toward the spiritual. You are willing to share with others; at all times you perform what you believe to be your duty as a good citizen. This area of the zodiac is at a peak of the solar year. Great creative power is a birth endowment here. Many musical and scientific geniuses have been born at this time of year. You get along well with others unless they try to dominate you; then the quiet rebel within you comes to the surface. For the most part your charm outweighs your aggressiveness, and much happiness and achievement is rightfully yours. 47/11 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: This is a master number vibration. During your lifetime you will face many tests of character and emotional stability. There is conflict between the emotional and practical sides of your nature; therefore, determination, caution and tact must be your watchwords. To perform at the most efficient level, you need to have a goal. Once you do, your personal charm and magnetism will sway others, and you will be offered the wealth and glamour of the world. Great dreams of success and wealth dance in your head; visions of grandeur take form in your imagination. Your abilities to influence others, inspire confidence and attract affection assures success; success that worldly people imagine they want. There is a flaw, however. As you attain these treasures one by one, you begin to realize that they do not bring the happiness you had expected. They do not have any real value. You are the epitome of the adage: "To whom much is given, much is required.” You are required to use discrimination - to weigh, test, balance and discard. Use silence and imagination to gain wisdom and inspiration. When your emotions are controlled, inspiration guides your life. You learn to handle money well and would be good in financial areas, such as banking or accounting. You also have great creative potential. You grasp new ideas easily and work with great speed. In whatever field you choose, you must express humanitarian qualities for a fulfilling life. You are adaptable, yet you have a strong will which helps you meet unexpected challenges. Use your natural and spiritual riches to bring stability and harmony into the lives of others. Learn the necessary discrimination to make the right choices. Do not mistake emotion for love or allow your illusions to affect your need for reality. 47/11 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Discrimination, dreams fulfilled. This master number vibration demands additional effort from you but promises greater dividends. Do not sit back and build castles in the air. You could scatter your creative energies in the fanciful pursuit of success. Many of your imagined desires can become realities now if you develop realistic methods to achieve them. You need willpower and determination to implement the ideas that you select as worthy. Many temptations can arise to distract you from the actual purpose of this cycle. These temptations will test your discriminative faculties. You will have to decide, through weighing, selecting and discarding, where your true values lie. Maintain a balance between the emotional and practical factors and make your plans accordingly. You may have mystical or psychic experiences. Use those experiences and rely on your intuition for guidance. Make your choices wisely during this cycle; be ever aware of the true value behind the illusions you see. The proper selections can bring true love, happy marriage, material prosperity and spiritual peace. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Seven of Cups. The figure stands facing seven cups filled with symbols of the gifts and tests to be handled during this life. These seven are: vanity, fame, ego, illusion, jealousy, frivolity and glamour. All are nebulous (floating on clouds). They represent what the worldly person imagines are desirable, but as they are attained one by one, it is realized that they do not bring happiness or any real value in life. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Third decan Scorpio. You may experience many domestic changes which will demand that you develop patience. You have ESP, which can be developed into prophetic or healing power. Strong interest in the occult, inherent in all the Scorpio decans, is especially strong in the third because of the trinity of rulers: the Moon, Neptune and Pluto. You are a romantic. Because you are deeply affectionate and loyal, you would become deeply depressed if the object of your love proved faithless. Try to be cautious in placing your affections. Do not build up illusion over any human being; to do so opens the possibility of disappointment. You handle money well and would do well in financial pursuits. You are flexible without being wishy-washy. Weakness is no part of your character. 48/3 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: Worldly success comes to you quite easily; however, as each possession is gained, you set it aside and go on searching for the satisfaction it should have brought. You yearn for something more, and when you realize that the material world alone cannot offer you the necessary fulfillment, you may turn toward the spiritual. You should not, however, turn your back completely on the mundane, for that could obstruct the practical mechanics of living. Learn to use the material, without depending on it. You are romantic, sincere and affectionate. You have high ideals. You appreciate beauty and the arts and have your share of creative ability. Your psychic and prophetic abilities are well developed. Your impressionable nature would find the arts a good channel for success. You are quiet, persistent and dependable. But you may be too psychic and sensitive for your own comfort. You have a good sense of values and prefer to live conservatively. You believe in giving a good day’s work to your employer. If you were the boss, you would expect the same from your employees. A sense of fair play is one of your assets. You have the ability to see both sides of a problem and judge fairly. Learning to laugh in the face of difficulties will relieve your intolerance of the purely materialistic side of life. You must remember that your keen sense of responsibility toward others, your sympathy for their suffering and your desire to do your part in the community and the world can be expressed through material means in many cases. Your love of animals and need to protect them is expressed here also.