agreement in occult, philosophical and mystical studies, and much potential for growth on the spiritual plane together. The 2 person understands and knows how to co-operate, and the 7 person needs periods alone to meditate and perfect ideas that eventually can be shared beneficially by both. 2 WITH AN 8: Your combined energies can take you far towards material success as this is an excellent money and financial combination. As a team you can build prestige, and enjoy a fine reputation for honesty and fair dealings. You are both efficient, and if the 8 person is careful not to overshadow and overwhelm the 2 person through his or her dynamic vibration, a good friendship can develop. The 8 person can rely upon the diplomacy and tact of the 2 person in all business dealings. 2 WITH A 9: The mediating and balancing capabilities of the 2 person coupled with the insight and vision of the 9 person can produce a winning combination. Each contributes harmoniously to the other, and when both are working for a cause, the momentum is increased through having a common goal. The 2 person’s ability to see both sides of a situation lends a firm foundation to the imagination and humanitarian instincts of the 9 person, and together they can do much to advance the needs of the world. 3 WITH A 3: This is a combination to watch out for. Since you both are apt to take too many chances, and believe in luck, which you have to a certain extent, you may extend yourselves too far. Your urge towards big ideas and expansive methods of operating your affairs can lead to waste and frivolousness. There is a bit of the gambler in both of you. If these qualities can be toned down and controlled, you can tackle just about anything. 3 WITH A 4: For these two persons to co-exist, a compromise is necessary. Each one must listen to the other, for the 3 person is expansive and free thinking, and the 4 person is saving and conservative, and these qualities can clash. A lasting association is possible if the 3 person is aware of the partner’s need for stability and caution, and if the 4 person eases up and listens to the broadening ideas of the 3. Together they can implement sparkling ideas with a firm foundation. 3 WITH A 5: These vibrations are harmonious, and almost anything you try together is bound to succeed. You are both set for full speed ahead. “Do it now” is your motto; the only danger is in being too hasty with your ideas. You are both full of ideas which the 3 person can display effectively, and the 5 person can sell easily. You may find yourselves carrying on more than one business at a time to supply outlets for your numerous ideas. 3 WITH A 6: This should be a very good relationship because you are both congenial, and fond of pleasure and socializing. Understanding and harmony exist between you because you have similar personality traits which should develop into a lasting friendship where you feel safe in making long range plans and investments together. Businesses which promote friendship and love, such as planning engagement or wedding parties, would appeal to you both. 3 WITH A 7: The 3 person supplies the energy and inspiration in this relationship whereas the 7 person gives understanding and deep insight. This is a winning combination in which the mystical 7 benefits from the lively traits of the 3, and the 3 learns to examine his or her own scattering tendencies and deal more productively with his or her talents. The 3 needs to socialize, and the 7 needs time alone. With each other’s needs in mind, this partnership can be ideal. 3 WITH AN 8: If handled constructively, there is nothing that can stop this combination. The 3 person has the talent for ideas, communication and effective advertising; the 8 has the power and drive in big business and philanthropic projects. Each supplements the other’s needs. If your aims are compatible, this is an unbeatable combination, and your highest hopes can be attained through 8’s practical business sense and 3’s social talents. 3 WITH A 9: There is much idealism in these two numbers and work in the material world can be neglected for the social pleasures of the 3, and the philanthropic leanings of the 9. Co-operation and mutual understanding abound here, and perhaps the combination is too compatible. As a team, you must bring your idealism into focus, and realize that practicality is essential, and that the material world is as important as the spiritual. 4 WITH A 4: This can be an extremely lucky and compatible combination, bringing financial success and material comfort. You are both builders in the material sense, and like to have visible products at the end of your endeavors. Your work must have practical value. Be careful that you don’t become too immersed in the physical side of life, neglecting the spiritual side of your development. This is a danger as you are both so much alike. 4 WITH A 5: This can be a good combination chiefly because you are so different. The 4 has the practicality and solidity to stabilize your combined efforts. The 4 is the balance wheel in this partnership. The 5 person supplies the wit and a variety of ideas. The 5 also has many contacts because he or she communicates so well with others. The 5 person can more easily adjust a mood to blend harmoniously with the 4, and the results will be worth the effort. 4 WITH A 6: You are both serious and practical, yet you love pleasure enough to keep a balance between your work and your play. Thus you create an atmosphere of happiness and joy. The 4 person is willing to work for gains, and the 6 person loves the home and the arts. Your combined talents might take you into professions that involve beautifying your surroundings. Your work would be appreciated and enjoyed by others. 4 WITH A 7: The 4’s talent for strong practical planning and thoroughness coupled with the deep insight and imaginative talents of the 7 person can create a combination of powers that can add up to great achievement. This is a good balance, because the 4 person lives in a material world whereas the 7 lives in a mental world. By combining these two aspects wisely, perfect balance can be achieved. 4 WITH AN 8: Where the 8 person thinks in terms of great power and large business deals, the 4 person can be a perfect balance with the ability to see the small details and add the practical stability that must shore up any large enterprise. You both tend toward physical and material achievement; the 4 moves in a more cautious and conservative manner, while 8 progresses in a larger and more sweeping way. But as a team you balance each other well. 4 WITH A 9: The 4 person has a valuable chance in this partnership to learn the lessons of life because the 9 person has much wisdom and insight to offer which can lift the 4 from the material world and show the value of work in a higher sense. The 9 person learns the lessons of practicality and work on the material plane from the 4. There is an exchange of ideas and philosophies in this combination, and a melding of brilliance with reason and judgment. 5 WITH A 5: You are both temperamental and excitable and when you work in conjunction these qualities come to the surface. If you wish to work well together, you will have to suppress outbursts that arise from nervous energy. Channel your combined energies into work that is adventurous and exciting, which might involve travel, or at least something that offers you both change and intellectual stimulation. Neither of you likes to be tied down for long, and if you are to be successful as a duo, you must find outlets for your energies. 5 WITH A 6: The 5 person intellectually stimulates and brings out the domestic and artistic qualities of the 6 person. The 6 lends form, beauty and order to the variety of ideas and the impulsive nature of the 5 person. The home would be well cared for and tastefully decorated, and much activity would take place there. This is a stimulating yet comfortable combination that puts others at ease. 5 WITH A 7: Too much talk and excitement on the part of the 5 person can turn the 7 person off. The 7 needs periods of quiet introspection and meditation and can be a calming influence on the 5. The 5 can add the zip and zest that the 7 person might lack. Together, through mutual respect and understanding of the other’s innate qualities, this combination can be extremely successful in the world of ideas. 5 WITH AN 8: This combination might be called greased lightning if you combine your vibrations wisely. You are both highly charged, the 5 in the realm of ideas and communication, and the 8 in the worlds of business, finance and sports. There is a great desire for adventure, and the 8 provides the underlying strength to shore up any projects. You both may need to listen to inner promptings and restrain your dynamism at appropriate moments. 5 WITH A 9: This can be a winning combination in that the 5 provides the versatility and promotional abilities to present the 9’s insight into the realm of science and research to the world at large. The 5 has the energy and the contacts and the know-how to advertise the expertise and wisdom of the 9 person, whereas the 9 person has the balancing qualities to turn the 5’s adventures into reliable and sustaining results. 6 WITH A 6: Beauty, art and comfort are paramount in the nature of the 6, and too much sweetness and roses can be tiresome if there is no real constructive stimulation to go with it. The danger here is that the sameness of your natures is apt to let things go along peacefully, while avoiding work. By combining your talents wisely, you can create an atmosphere of incredible beauty in the home or the community. There is great gentleness and love of the home in this combination. 6 WITH A 7: This can be a difficult combination in that the 6 person is involved in the domestic and artistic world much to the exclusion of all else, and the 7 person is also immersed in separate worlds of mind and thought. The danger here lies in failure to communicate with each other at all. Cooperation and the determination to communicate with one another must be decided upon from the outset. 6 WITH AN 8: This combination has strong possibilities. The 6 person offers the loving support and the spark of imagination that will benefit the 8 person in whatever profession is chosen as a goal. The 8 person with the stronger financial and commercial tendencies, will most likely take the lead in this partnership, and the 6 can offer creative methods for handling and presenting those ideas, plus the domestic background support that makes the end of the day a joy. 6 WITH A 9: Here is a chance for lasting friendship or partnership. You enjoy mutual feelings about most subjects, and both believe that marriage demands the spirit of give and take. The 6 supplies the beauty, the 9 the truth; and together you can learn much from each other in the realm of the domestic 6, the microcosmic unit, and in the realm of the universal 9, the macrocosmic unit. Each teaches the other the importance of the smaller and the greater. 7 WITH A 7: Peace is the key word here. You are both mature in your emotions and no disruption or argument between you could endure for long. You both tend to live in a world of ideas, and realize the transitory nature of the material world. The danger here lies in your rejecting the physical world as illusory, and consequently spending all of your time in your minds, with no one to pay the bills and keep the wolf from the door. 7 WITH AN 8: This could be an excellent partnership. The fire and strength, heat and force of the 8 can overpower the quiet 7, but 8’s organizational and executive abilities can greatly enhance the insight and vision of the 7 person. Thus the 8 provides the strength while the 7 predicts the outcome and adds the calm intellect that enhances the daring qualities of the 8. Together this can be a most effective partnership. 7 WITH A 9: Great depth and sympathies exist in this pair. Inner growth is a goal you both seek, and the universality of ideas brings harmony, understanding and peace to you both. This is an almost perfect combination as you have a meeting of mind, heart and soul in harmony. A mystical relationship could develop and your combined talents could produce benefits for all humanity, in which your wisdom could enhance the lives of all those you contact. 8 WITH AN 8: This is a perfect pair for a revolution. As power meets power head on, the sparks may fly. On the other hand, you could have the opposite effect and extinguish each other. As with all energies, this combination can be used wisely. Handled with great care, your combined strength and executive capabilities could present a united front to the world that could not be beaten by any ordinary opposition. This is a partnership that could accomplish almost anything in the world. 8 WITH A 9: This is a good partnership for scientific or philanthropic research and activity. The creative qualities of the 9 combined with the power and practicality of the 8 make this a tremendously successful combination in research and financial or economic circles. At the same time you could contribute much to each other in a spiritual sense since the 8 supplies the stability and values of the material world while the 9 exemplifies the universal philosopher. 9 WITH A 9: This may be said to be a combination of destiny, as you are both intuitive, clear-sighted and imaginatively creative. You both know the value of enhancing your own lives through the teaching and caring of others, and some great benefit to humanity should result from this partnership. A deep bond will grow between you, and you will gain much enlightenment from one another. Missing Numbers in Your Name. The missing numbers in your name, sometimes called the karmic numbers, indicate the qualities you must develop in this lifetime. They represent the qualities and attitudes we must adopt in order to expiate the shortcomings of our past lives. In our example, Ada Wynn Lunt has the following number vibration, as shown on screen. To these we will add a new number vibration. Add the double digit Path of Destiny Number to the double digit Life Lesson Number. The result is the Power Number. The Power Number represents a vibration that comes into play through your 30’s and 40’s. It is a combination of all your talents. If we examine the number vibrations in Ada’s name, we see that she is missing the numbers 6, 8 and 9. If any of these numbers is present in her four personal numbers, her Power Number, or a nickname she may use, then that vibration is already present in her life. Her four personal numbers are 12 or 3; 29 or 11 or 2; 41 or 5; and 37 or 1. Her Power Number is 78 or 15 or 6. From the missing group of 6, 8 and 9, we can eliminate the 6, which she has as a Power Number. So Ada is only missing numbers 8 and 9. The qualities represented by these numbers must be incorporated into her life. Remember that in addition to the personal numbers and the Power Number, a nickname or some other name change may fulfill a missing number vibration. Therefore, check all possible name and number combinations before deciding that you lack a certain number or numbers. In this case, master numbers can be reduced to fulfill vibrations. An 11 fulfills a 2 vibration, a 22 fulfills a 4, a 33 fulfills a 6, and a 44 fulfills an 8. Find your missing numbers, if any, and read the following delineations to determine what qualities must be built into your character. For further delineation, look up the number in Part 2. 1 AS A MISSING NUMBER: You need to build in the qualities of leadership, courage and daring. It is important that you learn to make decisions and take control of any given situation which requires your effort. You need to assert your individuality so that you will be heard and listened to. You must learn to be first and best at something, and to step out into new and untried situations. Exert your pioneering instincts, and dare to be yourself. 2 AS A MISSING NUMBER: You must learn the fine art of cooperation, tact and diplomacy. Working in partnership with another requires giving on your part; learn to stay in the background when necessary. When you understand how another person thinks and feels, you can get in touch with your own emotions and feelings, because you can view the reaction you have upon others. By developing an awareness of opposites, you will enhance your own creative potentials. 3 AS A MISSING NUMBER: You need to learn to express yourself. Develop your communicative talents by training yourself in the art of speaking through acting, elocution, foreign languages, and so forth, so that you can be an influence in the lives of others. You should develop a happy optimistic outlook and spread enthusiasm and sunshine wherever you go. More socializing and entertaining are necessary in your life. Travel, broaden your mind and examine new opportunities. Be aware of your appearance because this has a distinct influence upon those you meet. 4 AS A MISSING NUMBER: You must develop an orderly, systematic life style which produces a structured existence. You must translate your energies into tangible forms through hard work and discipline. Budget finances and keep accounts in order. Become thrifty and practical, steady and reliable. Use reason to arrive at conclusions. Learn what it means to be the salt of the earth, because your life needs a strong foundation set upon the cornerstone of order, logic and hard work. 5 AS A MISSING NUMBER: You need to learn to adjust to changes and to become more versatile. You must develop your freedom, physically, mentally and spiritually so that the more adventurous side of your nature can express itself. You need to travel and socialize with many types of individuals so that your own perspective on life can be enhanced and broadened. Develop your mind and learn to communicate effectively with others. Your mind is your greatest resource, and should be utilized to its fullest potential. 6 AS A MISSING NUMBER: You must express more love for others. 6 is the domestic vibration, and the lack of it indicates a need to deepen ties of affection with those in your immediate family and environment. You should develop a personal sense of responsibility for those who depend upon you, and a social sense of responsibility for the welfare of those in your community. By becoming aware of the needs of others, you increase your ability to see both sides of an issue and therefore sharpen your talent for making keen judgments. This acute sense of balance heightens your artistic sense and may help you realize hidden creative abilities. The artist in you may then emerge. 7 AS A MISSING NUMBER: You need to develop your mind, and your intuitive and philosophical side. You must abandon the material world on occasion and learn to go within yourself, to meditate and ponder upon the substance of your being. Trips alone into the countryside or to the seashore should be part of your yearly schedule. During these isolated periods, your creative imagination can roam freely to explore the world of thought. Develop your perceptions so that you will not be fooled by outward appearances. Study philosophy, religion and metaphysics to expand your mind. 8 AS A MISSING NUMBER: You should channel your energies into the material world to attain a position of leadership. Develop your business sense. Your role should be that of the big boss, the executive who organizes and manages big business. Your ambition should carve a niche for you in the financial world where wealth can be easily accrued. This number bestows strength and will, and by using these qualities you could easily become an outstanding athlete. The proper use of this vibration will bring you recognition in either the financial or sports world because, by embracing its gifts, you have the strength and determination to overcome all obstacles and attain your goals. 9 AS A MISSING NUMBER: You must become the universalist, the humanitarian whose primary concern is for the welfare of others. You should develop breadth of thinking, and universal love for others. Close personal ties may have to take second place to your first priority, which is sharing your spiritual knowledge with the world and inspiring those whose lives seem dark and hopeless. You must become an example for others through your compassionate and sympathetic nature. Allow no limits upon your thinking. Dare to dream the highest dream, and perform the impossible task. Become charitable, loving and understanding. SIX: THE LIFE OF EDGAR CAYCE. WE WILL DEMONSTRATE, through the life of the famous psychic Edgar Cayce, how the processes described in the previous chapters of this book can be implemented to delineate an individual’s life. Rather than begin at birth and work through his entire life, we have chosen some of the major events in Cayce’s biography. Through them we will establish the validity of the Divine Triangle as a blueprint of his life. We will present only basic biographical information because Edgar Cayce is well-known, and written material on his life is plentiful. Edgar Cayce was born near Hopkinsville, Kentucky, on March 18, 1877. Although poor and uneducated, he was to become a beloved figure known as the sleeping prophet. A deeply religious man, he lived a devout Christian life and used his remarkable psychic talents to benefit others. Putting himself into a trance, Cayce would diagnose the illnesses of those who consulted him, and then recommend treatments and cures. He also possessed the ability to read the akashic records. It is said that every sound, thought and vibration since the beginning of time is registered on these records, including the first sound vibration which called forth manifestation. Based on the akashic records of those individuals who applied for such a reading, he brought out information on their past lives that was useful in their present incarnation. In this way he helped thousands of people regain their health and conduct their lives in more constructive patterns. Edgar Cayce expressed his belief that the name indicates the soul’s place in evolution. He said in reading number 281 dash 31: "Each entity, each soul, is known in all the experience through its activities - as a name to designate it from another, it is not only then a material convenience, but it implies... a definite period in evolution of the experience of the entity in the material plane." In reading number 261 dash 15 he says: "As related to individuals these each vibrate to certain numbers according to their name, their birthdate... Then when these appear, they become either as strengths or as losses or as helps or as change… but... they are rather as the signs, or the omens; and may be given as warnings... in any manner that they may be constructive in the experience of the individual." In reading number 311 dash 3 he says: "In any influence, will... a self, the ego, the I AM... is the greater force to be dealt with, but as numbers do influence... a knowledge of same certainly gives an individual a foresight into relationships..." We chose Edgar Cayce to demonstrate the application of double digit numerology and the Divine Triangle because his life clearly demonstrates the truth of the above quotes. By delineating Edgar Cayce’s name and birthdate we arrive at his four personal numbers: Soul Number 12 or 3; Outer Personality Number 33; Path of Destiny Number 45 or 9 and his Life Lesson Number 44. Soul Number 12 or 3: This is a very high spiritual vibration. It represents a conscientious individual who is innately aware of our spiritual relationship to God and who has a great desire to help others. Through his ideals, Cayce was inspired to dedicate his life to the betterment of humanity. He had a heartfelt interest in all who sought his advice, and his greatest desire was to help them find health and happiness. He taught the value of prayer and meditation and practiced this in his own life. For many he was a living example of a truly spiritual human being. Outer Personality Number 33: 33 is a master number which carries an almost Christ-like vibration. In his outer physical life, Cayce worked constantly, giving both diagnostic and life readings through which he brought out the theory of reincarnation, and revealed knowledge of astrology and numbers as related to the lives of human beings. He interpreted the Bible as well. Because he was seen by many as a savior, he felt the need and obligation to work for the good of others, even though his own fortunes would suffer. Path of Destiny Number 45 or 9: This number indicates that his mission in life was highly spiritual and mystical. He was not satisfied with worldly success alone. This Path of Destiny Number signifies one who loves to teach and serve others. It endowed Cayce with the courage and fortitude to face the changes and emergencies in his life, giving him faith that everything would work out with God’s help and guidance. This number also indicates one who is willing to work hard, even at the expense of his own health. Cayce’s theme seemed to be: “Let me ever be a channel of blessings, today, now, to those I contact in every way.” The Life Lesson Number 44: This number, derived from the birthdate, indicates what a person should learn in this life. This master number 44 is called Atlas. In mythology Atlas supports the heavens on his shoulders. In other words, Cayce would take responsibility for others, attend faithfully to duty and make the best of any situation which had to be met. He possessed common sense and foresight in order to make fair judgments. He was very understanding in his dealings with others, anxious to please and help in any possible way. He believed that service was the way toward mastership, and his life and works are ample proof of this. To choose which numbers are important in the delineation of events in a lifetime, select those that coincide with the four personal numbers (in our example, 12 or 3, 33, 45 or 9 and 44). The personal numbers are activated whenever they are energized by corresponding numbers. Thus a 12 or 3 event would energize Cayce’s 12 or 3 Soul Number, as would any type of 3; a single 3, a 21, a 30, a 39, etc. Therefore any variation of 3, 6, 8 or 9 would activate the corresponding personal number; however, it would activate it according to the double digit variation. In addition, it seems that often one’s master numbers, e.g. Cayce’s 33 and 44, are triggered by any of the four master numbers: 11, 22, 33, 44 or by their base digits 2, 4, 6 and 8. To see how Cayce’s life is reflected in his numerological blueprint, we examine each nine-year cycle in two ways. First, we will look at the correlations between events in his life and the experiences under the major process and the minor process which are operating during each nine-year cycle. Secondly, we can see whether any of the events correspond with the personal year and the three four-month period numbers also operating during that time. We will discuss here only the most significant events of Cayce’s life. We will, however, list all the experiences under the major and minor process for each nine-year cycle; in addition we will list each personal year and that year’s division into the three four-month periods. You will then have before you all the temporary numbers which affected Cayce throughout his life, even though we will discuss here only the most significant events of his life. Age: Birth to Nine. To calculate the experiences of Edgar Cayce’s first nine years by the major process, (see figure 6) we will work with the number in the center of the square, 19 or 1, the number on the side of the triangle, 3, the number in the center of the triangle, 44, and the ages at each end of line AB, 0 and 9. 0 + 1 is 1. 9 minus 1 is 8. At ages 1 and 8, Cayce had a 19 or 1 experience. 0 + 3 is 3. 9 minus 3 is 6. At ages 3 and 6, Cayce had a 3 experience. 0 + 8 is 8. 9 minus 8 is 1. At ages 8 and 1, Cayce had a 44 experience. To calculate the experiences by the minor process, we work with the numbers in the center of the square, 19 or 1, on the side of the triangle, 3, and on the first line, 5, and the ages at either end of line AB. 0 + 5 is 5. 5