to emotional situations that arise now. Do not bemoan your fate; work on your sense of humor and try to see, from a detached point of view, the frailties of human nature. Your happiness depends on your integrity. You may experience many ups and downs under this vibration; therefore, you would be wise to find a creative outlet to express these moods constructively. Acting, music, poetry or painting are good outlets. There can be separations and disappointments in love relationships; those you love may be absent for a time. Expect some delays. If this is a negative vibration, your fluctuating moods could bring on confusion in deciding what to do. Use the experiences of this cycle for growth. The wisdom you gain here should be made available to those around you who need kind words and a gentle heart. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Three of Swords. Three swords pierce a heart. They look like crosses, suggesting that those who bear their crosses bravely become more sympathetic and tolerant of others. The heart is also a symbol of charity. The clouds indicate that the brighter side is hidden and that all your natural attributes are not immediately apparent. There is a need to develop spiritual discernment. If negative, self-pity is your weakness. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Second decan Libra. Perseverance, integrity and the drive to achieve are important attributes of this decan of Libra. You have vitality and a sense of humor. You are a humanitarian who will work to improve conditions that seem unfair. You are honest and faithful in your dealings with others and often give them the benefit of the doubt. Sometimes this results in your own heartbreak. You would rather suffer yourself, though, than cause injustice for others. You can appear aloof, but at heart you are keenly sensitive. 58/4 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are a logical thinker and a skillful worker. A career in medicine or metaphysics is possible as this number is related to sight and insight. You are introspective and you tend to analyze a problem very thoroughly before you decide to act. You are dependable and cautious, and you use your energies carefully for constructive purposes only. People respect you for your honesty and fairness. You have a keen sense of justice, yet you believe in mercy. You want your life to be orderly and conventional because you believe in tradition and discipline; however, you will enjoy life and its pleasures. You are charming, affectionate, careful, and yet emotionally controlled. Your creativity shows in your love of beauty, harmony and peace, which you need, and work to preserve, in your life. You could be a talented writer. You have a keen eye for details and the ability to analyze a situation and come to logical conclusions. Others seek you out for this very reason. You also have a fine sense of honor. There is a great mental activity with this vibration, and there may be traveling. You enjoy solitude when you can relax and meditate. These periods bring things into perspective for you and help you maintain your generally good health. You may eventually decide to put away material considerations for spiritual pursuits. You are courageous and, although you prefer to live a life of peace and solitude, you are ready to take action to preserve your peace. You have earned a rest from the strains of life and will express that peace in this lifetime. A negative 58 or 4 causes unrest and dissension; ill health and perpetual convalescence may be the result. Social unrest could lead to retreat and exile. 58/4 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Rest, relief, retreat, convalescence. This is a period of retreat in which your mind seeks rest from the cares of the world. Conflicts have ended, worries are over; now you desire peace and quiet to gather your strength. You can now analyze your situation and logically decide how to proceed. You are able to put even the smallest details of your life into perspective and clearly see what has real value. Your solitude may be a convalescent period after an illness, a self-imposed vacation for rest and relaxation or an enforced retreat arising from social unrest. Whatever the impetus that propelled you to this space, it requires concentration and meditation on the experiences that have brought you here. If used wisely, this period can lead to a change for the better. The conclusions you arrive at subconsciously will affect your future actions. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Four of Swords. The figure has assumed the proper position for rest, inferring that rest from anxiety and strain has been earned. The swords are put away; three hang on the wall, and one is placed lengthwise along the couch. This shows that, if need be, action would still be taken to preserve peace. This is a card of peace and quiet, not death. The window depicts outer activity. A man is shown kneeling before a woman, symbolizing that the conscious mind (male) is still a slave to the subconscious (female). To the resting figure all is serene; the sword of discrimination has been used and put away. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Third decan Libra. The mental side of Libra is strong in this decan; therefore, intellectual pursuits will attract you. You could do well in teaching, preaching, lecturing or writing. You have an amiable disposition and a refined manner, and you are extremely adaptable. You are logical and fair and believe in mercy and kindness. This is really the most balanced of the Libra decans. You have the integrity to be a judge. Your standards are high. Your greatest desire is for order, harmony, beauty and peace in your life. 59/5 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are passionately devoted to your convictions and will stand firm to defend your rights. You should strive to keep away from danger or injury. You are a gambler. You want to win by your wits, but you will experience defeat if you do not express yourself positively. Success as a banker or broker is possible as long as you neither take nor recommend speculative risks. Your mind is quick, and you need to guard against making impulsive decisions. Life will be full of experiences and travels. You may find yourself doing more than one thing at a time, but doing them all well. You are creative, versatile and charming. Your lively and sparkling personality can easily influence others, especially the opposite sex. You are critical of your own efforts and seek perfection. You are humane, refined and sympathetic. You may seek leadership positions where, as an executive, ruler or conqueror, you can use your idealism to implement social reform. Your sensitivity attracts you to the arts. Select congenial outlets for your talents and avoid the humdrum. This will help you disperse your surplus energy and maintain the peace and serenity so necessary to your health and well-being. A negative 59 or 5 deserts responsibilities. Your life becomes one of degradation and defeat. Your cruelty and unfairness in trying to outwit others brings empty victories which crumble and leave you with nothing. You, and all 59’s, should aim for higher consciousness. 59/5 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Travel, change, responsibility. Do not take speculative risks under this vibration. You may tend to be more impulsive now, so make an effort to think things through before acting. This impulsiveness can also cause accidents and injury; therefore, maintain a moderate speed in your lifestyle. There can be travel and a variety of opportunities now. Excitement, movement and romance make life more interesting. Be careful that you don’t follow your impulses blindly. This can bring loss and slanderous talk, and your reputation can be affected. Remain positive and accept your responsibilities; then you will come out on top. If you initiate changes after careful consideration, you will persevere. Situations encountered will be settled in your favor because you have the strength to stand up for what you believe. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Five of Swords. The figure in the foreground represents one who has finished the job. The figure walking away has laid down his sword, but he is still not defeated; he merely shows that he knows when to fight and when to retreat. The other figure really is defeated and is weeping over this fact. This card represents three attitudes of mind. It shows that we must discriminate in all matters and stand on our convictions. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: First decan Aquarius. To the Aquarian could be assigned the motto, “every person a brother or sister.” This is the sign of altruism. You are inspired by the concept of the Aquarian Age. You are intelligent and self-confident and determined to achieve your chosen goal. You are also willing to fight to preserve your ideals. 60/6 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You have the ability to examine reason as a human institution and then set it aside to make room for true wisdom, untainted by preconceived ideas. You may follow a literary career although you can apply your mind to various pursuits with equal success. You prefer to work independently rather than in partnership. You are sought after for your cheerfulness, fairness, intelligence and self-confidence. You make a good lawyer because clients feel secure with you. This vibration bestows a sense of power. You feel that you are under divine protection. People seek your advice and help because they also sense your healing qualities, both physical and mental. You are energetic and tirelessly strive toward a high goal of attainment. Nurses, advisors and managers are under this vibration. You are often deemed an idealist. You combine logic and imagination in a unique manner; this shows a fine balance between your conscious and subconscious minds. You are a leader with a sense of justice; if you find yourself becoming egotistical, balance that trend through generosity and consideration for others. You must earn your success through sustained effort and conscientious work. Do not expect results without application. You are creative and inventive. Some notable artists have been born in this vibration, but all of them labored faithfully for their successes. Negatively, a 60 or 6 is a rebel. You pursue your independent ways regardless of the needs of others. You may waste your fine mind and creative talents in selfish endeavors. 60/6 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Passage, new home, proposals, love. After a period of struggle during this cycle, you are on your way to a successful and happy conclusion. The job is done, and you have paid your fare. There will be companionship, love and a meeting of minds. You may receive a proposal or invitation to join with another in a mutual endeavor which promises fulfillment. Someone may represent you in a meeting or you may deal with someone’s representative. There is a coming together aspect involved here. Travel is a possibility as this vibration indicates physical movement as well as mental. A new home and environment may result. An element of justice is present. Legal dealings may arise to bring about the peaceful settlement of unresolved issues. You may encounter lawyers, judges or the courts in some way. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Six of Swords. The man, woman and child represent the trinity in consciousness. They are moving to another shore. The water of the subconscious supports them. The man has no difficulty steering the boat because the water is calm. The swords are arranged in a line to act as a shield. The points are down, indicating that the work has been done. There is harmony within the minds and they are all moving in the same direction under the guidance of the conscious mind (man). ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Second decan Aquarius. You are a discriminating individual. You seek goals beyond the material in the intellectual and spiritual realms. Your career could take you to many parts of the world. You have the desire to see and to investigate beyond the place of your birth. You have charm, intellect and a sense of power. Use your imagination constructively to make logical plans and get results that will benefit many. Often this takes place in artistic or literary fields. You have an uncanny ability to make your projects succeed. 61/7 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: The keyword for a 61 or 7 is achievement. This is a vibration of peace and sincerity. You have control over your emotions and command over others through your calm, deliberate manner. You are patient and sensible, and will achieve many of your goals through concentrated effort. You are intellectual, refined and discriminating. You know intuitively that the future depends on the past, and you use past experiences to promote growth. An interest in the occult and mystical may lead you to work in a religious or spiritual field and live a celibate life. You are responsive and sympathetic to the needs of others. You may be idealistic but at the same time you are willing to work for your goals. Your creed is tolerance and you believe that faith and spiritual development can cure all ills. Your well-rounded personality and high ethical standards could lead to a position as a foreign ambassador or diplomat. Your tolerance and idealism influence groups. You like to enjoy yourself and you will travel because you do not like to stay long in one place. You seek perfection and will always feel that you have not done as much or as well as you should. People may find you elusive; just when they think they have your number, you change unexpectedly. Some people find your actions contradictory; others see the seeds of greatness subtly hidden in your colorful personality. A negative 61 or 7 never quite succeeds. Your plans continually fall through, and others take what you feel is rightfully yours. 61/7 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Health, travel, completion. Listen to the good advice given you during this cycle. That advice may come from those in a position to know, or from your inner self. Since you need a period of quiet to hear and think about this information, you will be placed in a suitable environment to do so. Your health may require your attention. You may decide to take a sabbatical or vacation. Past efforts and attitudes are coming to fruition now; your success depends upon how well you have handled both. If your plans have failed or only been partially successful or if someone else has attained what you want, then examine your procedures. Faith, integrity and concern for others must dominate all your actions. Be tolerant of the errors of others now, and partial success may ultimately become a triumph. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Seven of Swords. The figure is hurrying away with an armful of swords. He turns around, wondering whether he should have taken the other two swords as well. This depicts uncertainty, hesitation and partial success. The tents also show instability for they are not permanent. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Third decan Aquarius. You form strong attachments or partnerships. People seek you for advice because of your perception and sense of justice. You would make a good lawyer or judge as you can easily see both sides of a question, and would evaluate fairly. You demonstrate a cool, impersonal freedom in your own conduct. You may be considered elusive, yet you inspire confidence, perhaps beyond what you yourself may feel. To develop self-confidence, practice discipline and emotional control. Difficulties and uncertainties will then be resolved. 62/8 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You have the power to achieve wisdom and control of the forces within you, but you must not become a slave to the intellect, which casts off what it cannot understand through reason. You have an analytical and discriminating mind with an eye for detail. Order and regulation are important in your life. You are also efficient and could succeed in detailed work, such as chemistry, pharmacology or any science involving experimentation. You will develop your intellect to satisfy your curiosity and desire for knowledge. You are clever, inventive and inquisitive, and are willing to research to find answers. You may want to travel, but if no opportunity appears, you will indulge in mental flights instead. You write and compile facts and statistics with equal pleasure. You are a thinker, quick and perceptive. You dominate groups through your ability to organize and get things done; but you keep all activities running in a practical and efficient manner. You willingly accept responsibility, but you never attempt the impossible. Although aware of your limitations, you are confident that you can overcome obstacles. Through thought and care you always seem to find a solution. You are trustworthy and responsible, a good neighbor and upright citizen. You want justice to prevail and may participate in community efforts to see that it does. You like quiet. Sometimes you like solitude so you can meditate. Study philosophy and learn to use your inner eye to see spiritual qualities. In this realm you cannot be bound by material considerations. You will find the true wisdom you are capable of attaining. If you are a negative 62 or 8, you are restricted by the appearances of your environment. You remain in bondage to trouble, sickness and burdens until you release yourself through true understanding. 62/8 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Impasse, restriction, responsibility. You may temporarily be involved in a situation which has reached an impasse or stalemate. You may feel restricted by your present surroundings and circumstances, or you may be censured or prevented in some way from expressing yourself. Difficulties with relatives may come to a head. Trouble and criticism cause deeper conflicts which may result in health problems. The selfish motives of those you thought were your friends may now be exposed. However, if you are not afraid to leave old habits and circumstances behind, you will be free from fear, free to relax and enjoy your newly acquired insight. Take courses, meditate, develop a sound philosophy which goes beyond materialism; discover the joys of the mind. Look within yourself for real values in life; see beyond the superficialities. If this has been your modus operandi all along, this period will bring the honor and recognition you have earned. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Eight of Swords. Although the figure is bound and blindfolded, she has found the opening through the barrier of swords (crosses). She travels the pathway of water, showing the power of the subconscious mind which is always symbolized by water in the Tarot. The castles in the background show substantial past accomplishments. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: First decan Gemini. The sign of the twins indicates duality. Those who are born in this area of the zodiac crave variety. You are happiest when you have several projects going at the same time. You are physically nimble, especially clever in any sort of handiwork. You easily learn to play musical instruments because of your flexible fingers. This tendency is also useful if you wish to do secretarial work. Writing, radio or TV announcing would be good outlets for your talents. When a subject captures your interest you are a very good student. 63/9 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are a born missionary and reformer. You worry over the sorrows of the world. You seek truth and wish to work for the good of others. There is, in this vibration, a fine balance of heart and head. This allows you to promote your ideals but prevents you from taking on the suffering of others. You may encounter struggles in which your emotions must be sublimated if you are to be successful. You are generous in sharing your good fortune with others. You are sensitive and sympathetic and are always ready to lend a helping hand when the occasion requires. This concern for others often leads to the development of the gift of healing. Through this you gain great happiness. You are independent. Your greatest inner struggle may be the desire for success at the sacrifice of some personal happiness. Self-control, discipline, patience and acceptance of your finite nature is the way to balance this powerful and complicated vibration. Artistic ability, clairvoyance and perception balance your unique personality. When you convert the threatening situations of life into tools with which to build a promising future, then you overcome all obstacles. You will have won the battle which tries to chain the spirit to the mortal world. Your inspired faith in tomorrow, against all odds, teaches and uplifts others. If you are a negative 63 or 9 you become swamped in sorrows. You see nothing but pain and grief in your environment and thereby waste your promising potential as an agent for hope in the world. 63/9 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Struggles, unselfishness, healing. If doubts assail you and you find yourself worrying unduly during this cycle, it is because you must learn, through emotional turmoil, to become less emotional. As you become more attached to material things, you become increasingly sorry that you may lose them. This is a cycle of endings, when physical and mortal things must change. The struggles and delays you endure last only as long as your persistent attachment to them. You must exercise self-control over your emotions. Become patient, quiet and receptive. You have healing powers now. Turn from your personal anxieties and share the experiences you have gained with those who need your wisdom. You can solve the problems of others and earn peace of mind and attain fulfillment. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Nine of Swords. The woman has an attitude of despair, regret, and contemplation. The coverlet which is marked with the signs of the zodiac and the seven planets symbolizes the experiences that life has brought her. These bring sorrow only if we allow them to impel us. If we understand that difficulties are lessons for growth and development, sorrow is lessened, and courage replaces frustration. The nine swords are pointing east, toward the light; this indicates new beginnings in the dawning new day. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Second decan Gemini. This is a more peaceful and less nervous Gemini decan, as the combined rulership of Mercury and Venus increases your sympathy and compassion for humanity. You enjoy the arts, music and poetry. A chance for harmonious partnership and love tends to produce beauty and joy in your life. 64/1 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: A 64/1 is extremely individualistic and often remains single. However, your magnetic personality, tolerance, liberal views and charitable ways draw joy and affection into your life. You are especially effective with groups. Happiness and fellowship are more important to you than fame or wealth. The contacts you make will help you attain your goals, which may include wealth if you should so decide. You want security in life and you are willing to work for it. You have fortitude, perseverance and determination; you always finish a task even though it is distasteful. You are intuitive and a good judge of human nature. Your keen intellectual perceptions will serve you well if you decide on a literary career, or decide to become a professor or public speaker. Professional work is better for you than efforts in the commercial field. Your conscious, subconscious and super-conscious minds work in unison, making almost anything possible for you through meditation and concentration on your life work. You are stable, honest and practical, a respected human being, who leads a proper life as a good neighbor and citizen. You know how to balance your responsibilities with recreation and rest. The lighter side of life lifts your spirits and provides a humorous respite. Your will to win comes from your strong positive attitude and determination to let nothing get you down. Scientific and spiritual matters interest you. Once you have awakened the life force, or kundalini, within you and accepted the true nature of reality, which is change, you will have the power to overcome all negative forces. A negative 64 or 1 suffers many losses and failures. You cling desperately to the material world of fear. Because you hang on, each loss brings greater suffering. You have not learned to develop a spiritual belief in what cannot be seen but nevertheless exists: faith, and the immortality of the soul. 64/1 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Responsibility, tests, awareness. This is a perfect time to develop your inner awareness through some form of metaphysical discipline such as meditation, yoga, TM, mind control or the like. Through spiritual pursuits you will learn that change is a constant cycle in the universe; all things must die and be reborn in new forms. Detach yourself from the experiences in your life and you will acquire the wisdom and fortitude to persevere toward your goals. You can be your own worst enemy if you let sudden burdens and disappointments defeat you. There can be trials under this vibration. By handling them you open a door in your life and discover the path of your destiny. One special person may be on that path to accompany you. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Ten of Swords. The ten swords pierce the spine at the centers. (The force centers are points of connection at which energy flows in the etheric double of the body of a human being.) The red robe of desire drapes over the lower centers but is held fast by the awakened discriminative sense. The background colors, yellow and blue in equal proportions, show the balance of the two parts of mind: conscious and subconscious. The hilts of the swords in the form of crosses are throwing the white light of super-consciousness, penetrating the black abyss of unknown mysteries. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Third decan Gemini. A good intellect, mental stability and balance are the gifts of this decan. You have the power of concentration, and you very likely will pursue a career in science. You could pioneer in electronics or in energy production. You ability to judge human nature without prejudice or bias is a valuable asset in your business and social life. FIVE: THE PENTACLES. 65/11 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: This is one of the best master number 11’s for obtaining material success. You will succeed through your perseverance, intelligence and maturity. By harnessing your energies and directing them constructively, you create abundance in your life. Good things seem to come to you almost without effort. You are systematic and orderly, with a talent for organization. Others look to you for security. You are a natural leader who achieves power and authority in the business world, with control over large industries and businesses. Important people are in your sphere of influence; they can help you to advance your status and reach your goals. You are practical and reserved and invest your riches wisely for the benefit of those around you. You are a patron of literature and the arts. You believe in education, good manners and a conventional approach to life. Your life will include a happy marriage, surrounded by comfort, productivity and powerful friends. A negative 65 or 11 uses money extravagantly in speculation, gambling and frivolity. You may even use your resources for evil ends. Your power is used for self-gratification through material pleasures and possessions. 65/11 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Promotion, risks, assistance. This is a master number period which requires more and, in return, gives more than any other number vibration. You can expect to elevate your present status. Money, position and influence are yours. The rewards are in exact proportion to your previous output and, if this has been substantial, you will revel in the riches life gives you. Influential people, especially of the opposite sex, will help you advance your position. You will have the power you desire in your chosen field. Maintain a practical approach to all affairs. Share your good fortune with others; you can afford to be generous now. However, extravagance and unwise speculation can lead to losses, so keep a balance. Marriage under this vibration is fruitful and successful. TAROT SYMBOLISM: King of Pentacles. The King is dressed in a robe decorated with grapes; they symbolize fruitfulness and plenty. The Taurean symbols decorating the throne indicate money, possessions and material gifts. The buildings shown are not merely houses, but are castles of substantial size. Luxury is also evident in the heavy carving adorning the throne, and the golden crown topped with a wreath of roses, the symbol of elevated desires. Since the roses are on top of the crown, at the highest point of the figure, they indicate that the desires have been fulfilled. The mace in the king’s right hand is a symbol of authority and power. The golden pentacle in the left hand shows an ability to handle money wisely. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: First decan Capricorn. This decan is Saturn-ruled and is the midheaven of the natural zodiac. It relates to honor, fame and ambition. If Capricorn, or any cardinal sign, is on the midheaven in your individual horoscope, some sort of prominence is indicated, depending on details in other parts of the chart. You have a talent for leadership and organization. You are persevering and thorough, thrifty and industrious, systematic and orderly. Education and the arts are important to you. You have good taste and conventional manners. You are the aristocrat of the zodiac, the most noble of the numbers, expressed in high and serious goals. 66/3 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are intelligent, thoughtful and responsible. Your public-spirited and idealistic nature inspires you to do something to solve the social problems you see. There is a practical side to your nature, too. You use your talents wisely and productively to achieve tangible results. Your magnetism attracts whatever you desire; as a result, you achieve great wealth and security. You are charitable and generous; you use your wealth and talents to help those who are less fortunate. You are a truly noble person. You appreciate the finer things in life and you love to surround yourself with beauty. Your home must be comfortable and well decorated, as you enjoy splendor if it is expressed