defensive and stingy. Crudeness and bad temper could remove you further from social contacts. Or, as an opposite reaction, you could appear completely undisciplined and lazy. Good sports clothes appeal to you, as they are designed for hard use and need little care. You select your clothes for service, insist on good quality materials, and often have them tailormade. You want to look neat and trim at all times. You are conservative in dress as well as conduct. 5 AS THE OUTER PERSONALITY NUMBER: You are a good conversationalist, bright, sparkling and witty, and will therefore have much interchange with groups of people. You are magnetic to the opposite sex and possess strong sensual appetites. Because change and freedom are so essential, there may be a quick turnover in your relationships. You like constant activity, variety and change and believe that change is progress. You must be able to do what you want, when and how you want to do it, in order to produce up to your capacity. You have a natural curiosity and are likely to take chances. Others see you as a natural salesperson, advertiser or promoter. Overdoing social interchange and desire for sensual indulgences can lead to excesses in eating, drinking, drugs or sexual contacts. You can become fickle, restless and undependable. You like to be among the best dressed on the fashion list or at least be ahead in style, and you wear bright colors in good taste. 6 AS THE OUTER PERSONALITY NUMBER: You emanate a protective vibration and a sense of responsibility for others. People are drawn to you for counseling, teaching and healing because you have a motherly or fatherly appearance which lends comfort and security. The home seems very important to you. You are optimistic, cheerful and reliable. You appear to love beauty and all things connected with the arts. You have a fine sense of balance and symmetry and can therefore see all the pieces as separate and yet part of the whole. A social consciousness urges you to seek truth and justice. You could become a slave to others, especially in the home, and your social responsibility could degenerate into social irresponsibility or interference in the affairs of others. In choosing clothing, you are careful yet display an artistic flair, preserving a tasteful color harmony in whatever combinations you choose. You prefer comfortable, easy to wear styles rather than exclusive models, although you are particular in choosing soft and flowing materials. Negatively, you could be a casual housekeeper and be careless about how you dress. 7 AS THE OUTER PERSONALITY NUMBER: You have the appearance of being a loner, enjoying your moments of solitude away from the crowds. Nature and periodic trips into the woods or time spent by the seashore provide the proper climate for your philosophic temperament. There is an air of mystery and secrecy about you. You seem to be the philosopher, mystic, poet, thinker, scientist and researcher whose temporary withdrawals allow time for further probing. A keen power of observation aids you in mentally analyzing any situation. You have an aristocratic air, a personal dignity and a refined manner and seem to possess an unshakable faith in the future. If you become tangled in materialism, you will find only disappointment and lose your poise and become frustrated, gloomy and withdrawn. Confusion, fear and pessimism then take over. You are neat, well-groomed and inclined towards wearing pastels or dark shades. You avoid loud colors and dress in good taste. If you become unhappy, you are then indifferent to the way you dress, and neglect the so-called petty details of color, harmony and matching outfits. 8 AS THE OUTER PERSONALITY NUMBER: You have a dynamic personality and people recognize your authority because you appear affluent and in control. There is an air of the executive about you; one who can manage big business and direct the affairs of commerce. You emanate a personal power and strength which brings recognition wherever you go. You appear authoritative, impartial and ethical. You seem to possess an endless font of physical stamina and endurance. Your personal power could lead you into situations where you might abuse that power. Materialism then overcomes your better judgments and you can become retaliatory and cruel if crossed. A successful appearance is your standard and you insist your clothes be well made and of good materials. You would never wear cheap articles. Carried to extremes, you appear flashy, the gambler or sport, desiring to impress others by wearing loud clothes and by flaunting large rolls of bills. A female might wear too many jewels and exhibit expensive clothes even though they may have come from the thrift shop. 9 AS THE OUTER PERSONALITY NUMBER: You appear to have a breadth of understanding as well as a personal magnetism that is universal in scope. Your warm, friendly and charming manner pleases all you come in contact with, and the selflessness that you emanate makes you loved by many. You seem to have a tolerance and compassion for others that allows you to forgive and forget easily. You are generous towards the needy and exemplify humanitarian traits. Others see you as emotional and romantic, as the idealist who believes that the progress of the world justifies personal sacrifice. Emotionalism can overtake you, and then you become susceptible to every sad story that comes along. At this point, you scatter your energies and emotions wastefully. Bitterness can result. You dress artistically with a dramatic flair, although you desire that your clothes be smooth-fitting and comfortable. You may be beautiful in face and figure, and if you take care of your skin and maintain good posture, you may remain young-looking for years. 11 AS THE OUTER PERSONALITY NUMBER: You are an inspiration to others who see in you a refinement and an artistic genius which moves their very soul. Avant-garde art is your preference and you seem to epitomize unusual and innovative techniques. Recognition and fame may very likely be bestowed upon you because of artistic or humanitarian endeavors. You appear to be the visionary who believes in equal opportunity for all regardless of sex, race, creed or color. Your idealism can degenerate into egocentricity in which case your many talents are dissipated or lie fallow. Your mind then seeks unhealthy outlets for its genius which can bring notoriety. Your eyes emit a spiritual light that can inspire others to achieve their potential, as they witness what you have done. Your dress is original in style and you may design your own clothes because you have the artistic flair and inventiveness to do so, and you prefer to be different. 22 AS THE OUTER PERSONALITY NUMBER: You appear as the masterly, diplomatic type who can handle all situations in a practical, efficient manner. You seem to have control over the material world and have the ability to make profound changes that could alter the course of history. You are a super-power who gives freely of finances to charity and organizations that benefit large groups of people. Your power can extend to the international level; you should perform material service for the world. Unprecedented power placed in your hands can cause you to become power-hungry and, rather than serve others, you may exploit them out of greed. You then become indifferent to the needs of others and are not above committing dishonest acts to achieve your goals. You are usually careful about your dress, choosing high quality materials and conservative styles. Clothes fit you as though they were made especially for you. 33 AS THE OUTER PERSONALITY NUMBER: You strike others as modest, humble and charitable. You always seem to gravitate to places where you are needed and you give more than you receive. Generous at all times, you do not look for rewards; you appear to be a natural giver. You love children and animals, and express kindness and tenderness towards them. People feel they can tell you their problems and you will understand. Sensitivity to the woes of others can lead you into futile self-sacrifice, and you deny yourself for others who often have no intention of bettering themselves. Then your martyrdom is useless, falling on barren ground. You dress in dignified styles, choosing your clothes carefully. Your conduct is proper and refined. 44 AS THE OUTER PERSONALITY NUMBER: You have a disciplined, almost military bearing, walking straight with shoulders held high. This inspires confidence in you from others wherever you go. You seem to know where you are going, what you are going to do, and how you are going to do it. There is a down-to-earth practical quality about you that comforts others. They sense that your common sense can solve their everyday problems and set the material world back in order for them. You may be so earth-oriented that you become mired in drudgery and responsibility. Then you lose sight of the source from which you sprang. At this point, your spiritual progress will suffer. You enjoy wearing a uniform-type outfit and often buy tailored clothing. You may add a military touch, using stripes, bars or distinctive buttons in an effective manner. The Path of Destiny. You have at this point explored your Life Lesson Number (your birthdate), your Soul Number (the vowels in your name) and your Outer Personality Number (the consonants in your name). We will now take the total of your entire name, which is determined by adding the unreduced Soul Number and the unreduced Outer Personality Number together. This is your Path of Destiny Number. It shows what you must do in this lifetime, what you came here to manifest. By adding the unreduced Soul Number to the unreduced Outer Personality Number in Ada Wynn Lunt’s name, we arrive at 41/5. Ada Wynn Lunt’s Path of Destiny Number is 41/5, and this is what she must do as a lifetime pursuit. Ada would now read 5 as the basic Path of Destiny Number in the following section. She would then turn to Part 2 and read 41/5 as a Personal Number Vibration, which is a finer delineation of the basic 5 vibration. This number represents your aim in life; in other words, it shows the path you must walk, what you should accomplish, what you must be. Although you may modify it somewhat by name changes, the birthname destiny is always the power behind any change, and will persist in its desire for expression throughout your life. 1 AS THE PATH OF DESTINY: You represent the real “I am” conscious of self as the center of your world, concerned with your individual desires and seeking self-preservation above all else. You use your resources for your own pleasure and have little interest in the needs of others. This is not necessarily bad, since you are here to develop the self but you must not allow this to be carried to the extreme of selfishness. You may be a newcomer to the earth plane where all beginning lessons are to be learned. The words you most often use are “I” and “I am.” Leadership is your keyword, and you must accept the destiny of leading while others follow. Your own independent initiative will help you attain success through your determination to stand for your beliefs even under duress. By exhibiting self-reliance and demonstrating your ability to win, you will succeed under all circumstances. 2 AS THE PATH OF DESTINY: Your desire for peace puts you in the role of a peacemaker. Your destiny could lead you to act as ambassador of good will to foreign nations and thus bring untold benefits to all mankind. Use your inborn tact and diplomacy to handle difficult situations in life. A mission as peacemaker is a magic gift for creating a better world in which to live. You also have a keen sense of opposites which allows you to develop your talents along creative lines. By expanding this awareness, you not only maximize your artistic potential, but you also enhance your abilities as a mediator and a useful companion. You become an integral part of any organization or group with which you become affiliated. 3 AS THE PATH OF DESTINY NUMBER: You have talents which give you a choice of occupations or hobbies. Your destiny is that of one who uplifts and inspires others. You should play center stage and develop your talent for expression and communication through drama, elocution or foreign languages. Explore the arts. Study the religions of the world. This could be a constructive outlet for your energies, since you have a natural inclination toward spiritual philosophies. Your occupation could encompass therapy for others, as well as self-improvement. If you wish to be a success, use your time wisely. Do not scatter your energies in too many directions at once and thus postpone the accomplishment of a worthwhile destiny. Promote friendship among your peers by being a friend when a friend is needed. You spread joy and sunshine through your ability for self-expression. Keep optimism as your trademark. 4 AS THE PATH OF DESTINY: Your destiny is to build tangible and useful products. You need to see what you have built. 4 is the builder of the world, the rock upon which all earthly substance is formed. You are well organized in your thinking and can manage your particular establishment with efficiency. You emanate a quality of stability. As a result, others will rely on you to get the job done efficiently and properly. You handle money well and might therefore find the financial world a fertile spot for your talents. Your keywords are impatience, honesty, determination and confidence. You demand obedience in the family and will practice self-denial in order to fulfill duties, either real or imagined. Your keen sense of value makes you dislike the mediocre. You know that what is worth having is worth working and waiting for. 5 AS THE PATH OF DESTINY: Many changes occur in your life, and your mission might well be to promote progress through a willingness to accept change. You are definitely not keyed to the old order or to outworn ideas and set principles. You are willing to adopt new concepts and new points of understanding, even to the extent of daring to claim the liberty to suggest new ways of doing things, and you have the ability to present the new in logical and acceptable terms. You make stepping stones of changes and cleverly turn them into growth experiences. You do not, however, forget conventions since you are really not a rebel. Instead, you propose new ideas to promote enlightenment; you have the courage and willingness to let go of the old and experiment with the new. You are very fluent and expressive with words and could find writing, lecturing or selling the perfect outlet for these talents. 6 AS THE PATH OF DESTINY: This is a domestic vibration. You love home and family life. You are the marrying type and your family is your main interest. You are morally good and respectable, trustworthy and generous. You like the comforts and luxuries of life. You are a good mixer, a good host or hostess; you greet and mingle with everyone present at any social gathering. You are proud of your possessions and even enjoy showing off your family’s talents and accomplishments. You should train your artistic talents so that you can share your aesthetic sense and appreciation of beauty with others. Many famous individuals in the arts worked under this vibration, expressing fully their deep and abiding love for others through their work. 7 AS THE PATH OF DESTINY: Your depth of character and seriousness destine you to be a teacher of ethics. You psychically separate the true from the false and can discover and reveal some of the mysteries of life to a waiting world. You should become the thinker, the philosopher, the scientist, the mystic or the religious zealot whose destiny is the mind. Some may see you as strange and hard to understand, but they will follow your teachings and seek your counsel when they are troubled. Your example and public image could benefit a whole community and eventually the world. You find strength in solitude, wisdom in moments of silence, and strength in your own knowledge. In ancient days, those born under 7 were placed in the temple to become priests or priestesses because all were aware of their mental powers. Develop your mental powers; the world will benefit. 8 AS THE PATH OF DESTINY: You have magnificent courage and stamina, and you will attain your goals through your own efforts. Recognition, success and wealth are your proper destiny. Perseverance in your career and long hours of intensive work backed up by ambition are what carry you to the top executive position in your chosen field. No lesser position would be acceptable to you. You need, however, to couple your material forces with the spiritual, and to attain mastery over yourself before you can attain and hold the position you visualize for your life’s work. Some people with this number vibration use their tremendous strength and endurance in the sports field and become outstanding athletes, thereby expressing their determination to be at the top in sports rather than in the business world. However, many famous athletes end up in business when their sports careers have ended. 9 AS THE PATH OF DESTINY: Perfection is your goal, but it is rarely attained on this plane. Your mission is a charitable one. You may meet many tests and setbacks, but the lesson of forgiveness will bring temperance to those situations. The higher you evolve, the more tests you are apt to meet, so guard against losing balance. You strive to live an ideal life and hope to inspire others to do the same. You desire to better the world through philosophy and philanthropy and become impatient when results come slowly. You need to realize that evolution occurs only in long cycles of time. You will meet many famous people in your lifetime who will be impressed by the breadth of your thinking. You should learn not to cling to old associations. When you have fulfilled your role with an individual, you must move on. You cannot be limited to a small circle of friends. Your broad philosophy must touch and enlighten the lives of many. 11 AS THE PATH OF DESTINY: Your gift of prophecy places you in the position where selfless service to humanity can be expressed, a difficult goal to live up to at best. You could work as a leader in public or civic affairs in your community and promote better standards of living for the more unfortunate. Your career drive could express itself through acting on stage or screen, or as a dynamic preacher or teacher. Your own standard of deportment should be above the average. You should achieve fame or recognition in some way, and since this vibration bestows great creative potential, the arts or inventive professions are your most likely choices. You have the ability to tap the creative source and imbue your work with an inspirational touch that will affect the souls of those who come into contact with whatever you create. You are truly inspired. 22 AS THE PATH OF DESTINY: You have confidence in your ability to lead and therefore naturally assume great responsibility. This fulfills your urge for important accomplishments. Once you have assumed your position of great power and wealth, you will want to participate in new mass movements in important civic and community projects. You are the super materialist whose influence can be world-wide. You are a creator on the material plane; you build in a large way. Bridges, hospitals, museums and other such structures are the visible products you leave to the world, products that serve to aid and enlighten mankind. Your influence is so far reaching that you must guard against unethical motives because you will ultimately affect many lives. Serve well and you will be rewarded in direct proportion. 33 AS THE PATH OF DESTINY: Your mission is self-sacrifice and service to others. You often undergo crucifixion in your emotions and suffer for the woes of the world. Your actions are tempered by compassion through your understanding of right and justice. You often find that you must live impersonally with a detached but caring attitude, and realize that the way in which you handle the burdens placed on you will be a supreme example for others. Others sense your understanding nature and are naturally drawn to you for comfort and solace. By answering their needs, you find the fulfillment this number demands of you. If you are not living up to the master number 33, you can live it as a 6. You may then develop a martyr complex and get little appreciation for your sacrifices. 44 AS THE PATH OF DESTINY NUMBER: This master number vibration demands great discipline and perseverance and the ability to make the best of any given situation. You are very resourceful, drawing upon your great wells of common sense and logic to solve any problems that arise. Your destiny is to serve the material needs of the world through productive and sound techniques. Edgar Cayce, a 44, solved the health problems of thousands. He served their material needs. You must gain complete mastery over your mind and body while here on earth. Your desire should be that others may share in universal prosperity and you should set about to construct situations in which this is possible. You seek to better the world in a physical way. The Significance of the 1st Vowel in the First Name. The ancients considered vowels the sacred elements in the alphabet. They thought that the first vowel was the vibration upon which the soul entered the body. It has been found that the first vowel does indeed have a profound influence upon the individual, and that, if one has an abundance of that same first vowel throughout the entire name, the quality of that vowel is enhanced. There are 3 things to look for when reading the first vowel in your name: 1. the meaning of the vowel itself; 2. how many of that same vowel there are in the entire name; and 3. what, if anything, precedes that vowel. If there are more than 3 of the first vowel in the whole name, it means that there is too much of that particular characteristic, and the person may be overbalanced in the direction of that attribute. The following delineation of the vowels is very general and is meant only as a guide to aid in assessing the individuality of the person under consideration within the context of the total numerological analysis. A AS THE FIRST VOWEL in the first name: You are bold, independent, inquisitive and interested in research. You know what you want and why you want it. If A is the first vowel and there are 2 A’s in the entire name, you are a clear thinker. If A is the first vowel and there are more than 3 A’s, you can be egotistical, cynical and even critical. E AS THE FIRST VOWEL: You have an eventful, exciting life. You are versatile and have the ability to learn easily, but may be nervous and temperamental. If E is the first vowel and there are more than 3 E’s in the name, you may have a fickle nature. I AS THE FIRST VOWEL: You are intuitive and interested in the arts, drama and/or science. If I is the first vowel and there are more than 3 I’s in the name, you are sensitive, shy and too emotional. O AS THE FIRST VOWEL in the first name: You are frank, methodical and believe in law, system and order. If O is the first vowel and there are more than 3 O’s in the name, you can be obstinate, slow and monotonous. U AS THE FIRST VOWEL in the first name: You have a universal mind capable of great ideas and a broad viewpoint. You love to accumulate material things. Symbolically, the U is a cup that holds, therefore you may become a collector. If U is the first vowel and there are more than 3 U’s you may experience loss and selfishness because the cup spills over and the contents are lost. When W is the first vowel in the first name, it vibrates like a double U. Y AS THE FIRST VOWEL in the first name: It has the same significance as E or I, according to the sound produced. To determine when Y is used as a vowel, consider the pronunciation. In the name May or Wayne, Y is not a vowel but if Y has a separate sound, as in the name Floyd, it is counted as a double vowel diphthong since the sound of the Y is distinguishable in the pronunciation. In a name such as Lynn or Wynn, where the Y is the only vowel sound, it is counted as a vowel. In the names Yvonne or Yvette, Y as the first vowel has the sound of E. Also, in a name such as Mary or Harry, Y is a vowel because it sounds like E. One last note on the vowel or consonant Y. Its two-pronged structure could symbolically indicate its double usage in the alphabet. As a vowel sound, Y could become the 27th letter in the alphabet to complete the 9th vibration presently missing. (I equals 9; R equals 18 or 9; Y equals 27 or 9). Pythagoras considered Y such a high mystical letter that at one time he took the name of Yarancharya to experience its vibration first hand. If the name contains 2 vowels together, as in the name Faith, then read the qualities of both vowels. For example, Faith indicates a person who is independent, interested in research (A), and also very intuitive, a lover of music and the arts (I). We do not count the vowels in the name beyond the 1st vowel combination unless there are identical adjoining vowels later in the name. In the name "Faith May Winter", we consider AI as the first vowel. Because the AI combination appears nowhere else in the name, the first AI stands as the only one of that vowel. The A in May and the I in Winter are considered separately. Conversely, should the name be Faith Daisy Waite, we would have 3 AI vowels to consider. The following is a list of diphthongs and double vowels in sample names. Triple vowels, such as in the name Louise, would also combine the qualities of the 3 vowels. Other meanings of the vowels will be found in the list of the ABC’s in Chapter 5, which gives the meanings of the individual letters of the alphabet. Your Personal Year. We live our lives in 9 year cycles, incorporating the universal principles of the numbers 1 thru 9. When we finish the 9th cycle, we begin again with 1 and proceed again through the 9 numbers. This cycle occurs over and over throughout our lifetime. Look back 9 years from this moment, and you will find that you are experiencing not the exact events but a similar type vibration. For instance, 9 years ago you might have been saving money to build a home; now you may be saving to send a child to college. The event is different, but the underlying theme is the same: budgeting money. If you know what to expect in any given cycle, you can live in tune with your particular vibration, and make your life easier, happier and more productive. To find your present personal year, simply add the month and day of your birth to the year of your last birthday. For example: November 12, 1940 is the birthdate of Ada Wynn Lunt. To determine Ada’s present vibration, we will add the date. 11 + 12 + 1975. (1975 was the year of her last birthday as of this book's writing.) Remember, we do not use the year of birth, but rather the year of the last birthday. If you were born on February 29, use February 29 regardless of whether the year in question had a February 29th or not. Ada, in 1975, is in a 45 or 9 personal year. The personal year runs from the birthday of one year to the birthday of the next year, not from January to December as the general calendar runs. Therefore, Ada will be in a 45 or 9 personal year from November 12, 1975 to November 12, 1976, even though most of her personal year, 1975, runs into the calendar year 1976. Ada would then turn to Part 2 and read number 9 under the section entitled 9 as a Temporary Vibration. She would then read 45 or 9 as a Temporary Vibration, which is a finer description of the underlying 9 Temporary Vibration. Note that we are not reading the number as a Personal Vibration. The numerical meanings of a Personal Number and a Temporary Vibration are the same; however, you must put them in their proper perspectives. If a number is your Personal Number, it is with you for a lifetime. If it is a Temporary Vibration, you experience it for a short time. So, from her November 12, 1975 birthday to her November 12, 1976 birthday Ada will be temporarily experiencing a 45 or 9 vibration. You can follow the same procedure for any given year of your life to find out what happened or what is going to happen. Merely choose the time you are investigating, for instance, the summer of 1946, or the fall of 1987, and from there determine the year of your last birthday at that time. Then add that year to your month and day of birth to find your personal year vibration. Period Numbers. We can divide the personal