year into 3 equal blocks of time to determine what is happening in each 4 month period of the year. We do this in the following manner. Place the personal year calculations in the first column. At the head of the 2nd column write the month of the birthday and the 4th month following; in our example, November to March. In the next column, place the following 4 months: March to July, and in the last column place the remaining 4 months, July to November. If the birth month were June, you would place June to October at the head of the 2nd column, October to February in the 3rd column and February to June in the 4th column. This simply divides the year into 3 four-month blocks beginning with the month of your birth. To find the experience of Ada’s 1st four-month block in 1975, add her age to the year 1975. She was 35 on November 12, 1975, so we will add 1975 and 35 to get 2010. We will then reduce 2010 by adding 2 + 0 + 1 + 0 to get 3. She will be under a 3 vibration from November 1975 to March 1976 of her personal year 45/9. In the 2nd block, covering March to July, we add the double digit of her Life Lesson Number 37 to the year 1975. 1975 + 37 is 2012, or 2 + 0 + 1 + 2 is 5. From March to July she will be operating under a 5 vibration. In the. 4th column under July to November, we will add the double digit of her Soul Number to the year 1975, or 1975 + 12 to get 1987. 1 + 9 + 8 + 7 is 25 or 7 vibration. Always add the unreduced double digit of the Life Lesson Number to the 3rd column and the unreduced double digit of the Soul Number to the 4th column. The delineations for these numbers are in Part 2 of this book under the Temporary Vibrations section of each individual number. Use the same procedure for any year. Why not figure your past personal year and period numbers to determine for yourself the accuracy of this method? Personal Month. It is even possible to find the personal month vibration which reveals the underlying trend of each month of the personal year. Simply add the number of the month in question (January is 1, February is 2, through December which is 12) to the double digit personal year number. Ada, in 1975, is in a 45 or 9 personal year. If we wish to find her vibration during the month of May, we add 5 for May (the 5th month of the year) to 45 for her personal year and arrive at 50 or 5 for her personal month. May will be a 50 or 5 personal month. Then read the delineations of number 5 and 50/5 in Part 2 under Temporary Vibrations for a more thorough analysis of the energies Ada is working with during the month of May in the year 1975. Since her birthday is November 12th, we would continue to work with the 45 or 9 personal year until November. We would then add the value of the month of November, 11, or December, 12, to the 46, rather than to the 45, because Ada entered a new personal year on her birthday. Ada is in a 6 period from March to July. This indicates a change in the home; Ada might possibly move during that period. We could then narrow it down to the month of May, because the base number 5 indicates change, movement and freedom. These personal month vibrations are minor and only help to locate the more important events during the year. Keywords for period numbers and personal months 1: new starts, action, originality, making decisions 2: harmony, cooperation, mediation, passivity 3: scattering, freedom, entertainment, self-expression 4: practicality, work, order, building foundations 5: change, freedom, new intellectual interests, travel 6: family, health, service, listening to others’ problems 7: self-analysis, achievement, health problems 8: business, power, responsibility, money 9: giving to others, endings, service 11: limelight, inspiration, religion 22: materialism, large endeavors 33: sacrifice, compassion for others 44: helping others resolve daily problems, counseling THREE: GOD GEOMETRIZES. THE SYMBOLOGY OF NUMBERS is universal; it contains eternal principles that cannot be modified by human will. Every manifestation is the product of the single digits 1 through 9. Geometry is the visual tool of the spirit world through which we can uncover any information needed to promote our understanding of ourselves and the world around us; in short, our evolution. All answers are there. An occult axiom states, “God geometrizes.” In this chapter, we attempt to explain what is meant by those 2 simple yet enigmatic words. Through the authors’ research, logic, work, meditation and intuition, the following concepts have emerged. Many ideas presented here have been accepted for ages, some are relatively recent, and the remaining are totally new. They make sense to us, and, for this reason, we present them to you. We can best begin by delineating the 4 basic shapes which form a numerical foundation for all numbers and shapes: The circle; the line; the triangle; and the square. The circle represents the Godhead, all that was, is and ever shall be; spirit, the I Am; love because it encompasses, enfolds and contains; balance, because however you turn it, it maintains its shape; and justice, because it is in a state of perfect balance. A circle contains 360 degrees. 3 + 6 + 0 is 9. 9 is the highest and final digit in the series of single digits; when multiplied by another number, the result always reduces again to 9. (2 times 9 is 18 or 9; 3 times 9 is 27 or 9; 4 times 9 is 36 or 9; and so on.) A circle has no beginning and no end; it is infinite and endless. The Lord said, “I am the Alpha and the Omega” (Revelations chapter 1, verse 11), the beginning and the end. The circle symbolizes eternity and the immortality of the soul. This is seen through the laws of nature and cyclicity. Planets revolve around the sun in a circular pattern; nature repeats itself in cycles; and, if we travel far enough out into space, we arrive at the same point from which we started (so scientists claim). The God energy is elliptical or round. It goes on and on, never ending. The ancients said, “God is a spherical intelligence whose center is everywhere and whose circumference is nowhere.” Behind the altar in many churches hangs a symbol of the cross surmounted on the God symbol, a circle. The upright vertical line symbolically represents spirit descending into matter, or energy leaving the Godhead. It has masculine qualities; it is outgoing, dynamic, energetic, fiery, upright and commanding. Every energy has an opposing polarity, and the horizontal line is such a symbol in relation to the vertical line. It represents the soul energy, the feminine, the receptive and absorptive qualities of mother earth. This line is an ancient symbol for matter and the material world. The triangle is the 1st closed form that can be made with single lines. It represents the Trinity, Father-Son-Holy Ghost, father-mother-God, father-mother-child, spirit-soul-mind, super-conscious, subconscious, conscious. In the 2 interlaced triangles, the Philosopher’s Diamond or the Star of David, geometry captures the axiom, “As above, so below.” We are made in the image of God. The upper triangle of the Philosopher’s Diamond is the father-mother-god which is reflected in the lower inverted triangle, father-mother-child. The upper triangle is the world of spirit, and the lower triangle is the world of matter. The Godhead from above is reflected in the material world below; therefore, what we see in the material world is merely a reflection of the truth. It is as if we are gazing into the depths of a cool forest pool, thinking the images we see are the only truth, although these images may be distorted by the wind rippling the surface of the water. We in the material body are merely observers of the shadows cast upon the walls of Plato’s cave. We live in a world of illusion and view things upside down. Geometry validates the theory that we see only half the truth. The following are mathematical truths: the sum of the angles of a triangle is 180 degrees; the sum of the angles of a square is 360 degrees; and a circle contains 360 degrees. By lowering the downward-pointing triangle of the Philosopher’s Diamond a bit, we have the illustration in the margin. Each of these triangles has only 180 degrees, or half the degrees of a circle or square (360 degrees). As we have shown, a circle contains all truth and wisdom; it is the Godhead. But in the triangle we have only half the truth. By adding these 2 triangles together, or 180 + 180, we arrive at 360 degrees, or all the truth. Symbolically situated in the lower inverted triangle, we must look to the spirit in the upper triangle to find all the truth, else we remain in a shadow land where the ill winds ripple our images and distort our vision of the truth. If the 2 triangles are turned to the side, they form a parallelogram of 4 sides, or a modified square. The square is the 2nd perfect shape that can be drawn with single lines; it is symbolic of the earth. The 4 appears in a number of ways: the 4 points on the compass; the 4 elements of fire, earth, air and water; the 4 points of the cross; the 40 days (an elevated 4), spent by Christ in the desert fighting earthly temptations; and salt crystallizing in cubes, a solidified 4. Finally, as the salt of the earth, we are all examples of the number 4. These are a few of the many references relating 4 to earth. The 4 sides of the square represent the 4 parts of the individual— with the physical body added to the triangle of mind, soul and spirit. Now, spirit has a soul, a mind and a body in which to work in the material world. By joining the 2 triangles of the Philosopher’s Diamond shown above, we arrive at the parallelogram, which like the circle, contains 360 degrees or all truths. This shows that complete attainment and fulfillment are possible here on earth in the physical body because the circle and the square both contain 360 degrees. Always remember, however, that spirit is contained within the body, just as the triangle preceded the square and is contained within it. Our body belongs to the earth, but our soul belongs to the spirit. Spirit is immortal because, as we have shown, the triangle existed before and independently of the square. But the square is totally dependent upon the triangle because the square is built upon it, following it in the natural order of things. Spirit cannot operate in the physical world without a material body, but it can operate in other worlds and dimensions. The material body contains and must reflect the Godhead for completion and fulfillment in the material world. “As above, so below.” Further examination of the Philosopher’s Diamond reveals deeper truths. Esoteric tradition teaches that the upper triangle is fire, and the lower triangle is water. We link fire to the spirit with such expressions as the living flame, the eternal flame; and the Bible speaks of the burning bush and the fiery fingers that etched the 10 Commandments on Moses’ tablets. Symbolically, water and the emotions are synonymous. We weep tears when we are emotional, happy or sad. Our common expressions equate water with the emotions in such phrases as rough sailing, stormy seas, "waves of feeling engulfed him" and so on. The major portion of our planet is water, known to be controlled by the moon, which also affects the stability of the human emotions. Spirit is linked to the mind, the head area, where the pineal and pituitary glands, the father and mother centers, are located. The watery emotions are centered in the heart. We are told that “the lion shall lie down with the lamb.” What we are being promised is that Leo the lion, ruler of the heart, shall lie with the lamb, or Aries the ram, ruler of the head. We shall have peace when the head and the heart are brought into perfect balance, when we think with our hearts and feel with our heads. The preceding analysis of geometrical forms has been preparation for the delineation of the Divine Triangle, the basis of which is the Pythagorean Theorem. The explanation of this blueprint can describe the magnitude or destiny of our lives. The blueprint is formed by the triangle of 3 parts of mind (mind-soul-spirit) added to the square of the physical body and matter. As you can see from the blueprint, the cross is also part of the Divine Triangle. Spirit descends into matter as shown in the illustration in the margin. We as human beings are stationed at the comer point where the 2 lines of the cross meet. At this point we are the recipients of the cosmic energy; therefore, these points represent an aspect of consciousness. The soul enters the body at point A and immediately begins its journey along the path which for the first 9 years will cover line AB. It then turns the corner at B and continues from B to C between the ages of 9 and 18. Upon reaching 18, it then turns and travels line CD for 9 years, until age 27. The first square ABDC has been formed. In this period of time, from age zero to 27, the mind and character are formed. Psychology and medicine bear this out. Plato said that one gains one’s soul at age 28, and astrologers will note that this closely corresponds to the first complete Saturn return which, at approximately age 29, has made 1 circuit on the natal chart, touching every planet, lending structure and form and crystallizing the energies emitted by each planet. As you can see, the soul, at point D, for the first time since entering the physical body, touches the fire of spirit. Therefore, between the ages of 27 and 29, we are in a precarious position; this is the 1st time the soul comes into contact with the fire of spirit, whose awareness it lost when it entered the body. Depending on the past use of our personal energies, it is at this age that we can be burned by the fire of destruction, or transmuted by the fire of spirit. This can be a painful, burning experience for those who are bound to the past and past conditionings, who cannot let go of those habits, opinions and beliefs that can restrict and encase them in the past. But, for those who use the experiences and learning of the past as a firm structure upon which to build the future, it is then that they are touched by the fiery flame of spirit, which reaches into their lives and inspires them to follow their true path of destiny. By observing the experiences in people’s lives between the ages of 27 and 29 we learn a great deal about how the fire can bum and destroy, or rekindle and transmute. We have established that the youth square of the Divine Triangle encompasses that period of time in which the process of building a sound mental structure is accomplished. In Pythagoras’s original theorem, the sides of the right triangle measured 3, 4 and 5 units of length. In figure 1, you can see that the youth square is built upon the side with the value of 3, which has an astrological correspondence to the planet Jupiter. With Jupiter as the foundation of the first 27 years of life, the principles of mental and spiritual expansion are at work. The youth square is the cornerstone, the mind, upon which the temple, the body, is built. Solomon, a wise numerologist, spoke of this cornerstone as the block upon which the power square, ages 27 to 54, will be placed. The power square has as its foundation line the horizontal side of the right triangle, with a value of 4, a number related to the earth. This implies that between the ages of 27 and 54 our life is spent dealing with the material plane and all that it encompasses. Certainly we can agree that most of us spend that portion of our lives using whatever power we have in striving for material gains and comforts in the form of job positions, salaries, housing and personal possessions; each is an aspect of the material plane. It is right and fitting that we should do this. We chose to incarnate in a material body to learn the lessons of the earth plane, and it is here in the power square that we are most intimately in touch with this particular learning process. You will note, however, that this square is a result of the square of the mind. The earth plane is the base line of this square, but the mind is the overseer, and indeed it is through the mind that we create our environment. It is here in this time span between the ages of 27 and 54 that we are free of the psychological restrictions and childhood conditionings of the youth square, free to make decisions about which way we want our lives to go. These decisions rest exclusively with the mind of the individual. The Bible says “As a man thinketh, so he is.” We cannot deny the profound effect that a positive attitude has upon the direction of our lives. Look around you. What you see is the result of the way you think. It has nothing to do with anyone else; it is yours and yours alone. If you are happy with your situation, then your mind is in order and well balanced. If you are not happy, then you and you alone have the power to change your present environment and relationships by making the decision that yes, you are a worthy person; and yes, you deserve to have all the material comforts you want; and yes, you should be loved and respected. Because it is only when you make the decision that you deserve and will have these things, that they will begin to come to you. Romans 12 verse 2 says: “Be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind.” At age 54 the 2nd building block has been completed, and the individual has established a body and a mind. We are known by the way we look, and by the way we think. Notice, however, that at age 54 we are experiencing the same transitional phenomenon we did at age 27. This point roughly corresponds to the 2nd complete Saturn return, and brings with it the same choices and results we confronted between the ages of 27 and 29. Here again at 54, for the 2nd time in our life, we come into direct contact with the center triangle of spirit, our own true inner self. Will the inner self express approval of our past efforts and reward us with the fruits of our labor? Or will the inner self instead hand us dried dead fruits, scorched by the burning fire of destruction? Whatever we reap, rest assured we have sown. The universal law of balance brings only justice. The law of physics that for every action there is an equal and opposite reaction has precedence here. It is swift and sure and without emotion, pure justice in action, but it is the result of our own past actions. We are always in control. If we have not sown wisely in the past, it is at this point that we can easily make the decision to change our direction. The future is ours to create. The wisdom square, which is the structure of the soul, is built upon the line assigned the value 5, astrologically a Mercury number. The ages 54 to 81, which the wisdom square encompasses, is thus a period in life given to much introspection. We reflect upon the past, its failures and accomplishments; the present, at what station in life we find ourselves; and the future, such issues as death and the immortality of the soul. In mythology, Mercury was the messenger of the deities, the connecting communication link between the gods of heaven and the mortals on earth. Symbolically, this fleet-footed messenger is the mind, the connection between soul and body, which, in the period of life between 54 and 81, must now turn from the material world and build the bridge between the physical world and the world of Spirit. This is accomplished through reflection, reason, order, logic and understanding; all mercurial qualities. This bridge between the physical and spiritual will be achieved through a synthesis of the results of the previous processes. In the youth square, mind was formed and conditioned and expanded; in the power square, mind had to operate in the world of form on its own, as a single independent entity. Now, in the wisdom square, the mind must analyze the results of the soul’s evolution through the various stages up to this point and begin to assimilate these findings into the soul’s growth experience up to the time the transition process of death occurs. For those of us who live through this square and reach the magic age of 81, there is a three-pronged fork at which we must choose a future path. We may decide to leave the body, at which point we will die and follow the ascending arrow out of the blueprint back to the source from which we came. Or we may decide to stay in the body, which implies that we will proceed in one of 2 directions, depending on the type of seeds we have sown in the past. Life past 81 is decidedly karmic. If we have wasted our life energies and left naught but destruction and unhappiness in our wake, we may very well take the path we originally trod at birth, that first horizontal line on the youth square, ages zero to 9. Because the line encompasses childhood we too will become childlike (senile) and need to be cared for like an infant. The 3rd path is for those who have sown wisely, who have used the precious God-given life energies and have honored the body temple in service to the material world through understanding, compassion and love towards others. On this sacred path, the few are revered and honored because their very presence blesses those near. Their touch is healing, and their words express the music of the spheres, inspiring and lifting the weary heart. Blessed are those who tread this path, for theirs is the destiny of supreme devotion to life. Chapter 4 instructs you in how to place your birth name and birth date on the Divine Triangle to work with your personal life blueprint. FOUR: THE DIVINE TRIANGLE. IN THIS CHAPTER, we will explain how to place your birth name and birth date on the Divine Triangle and discover the events which you will experience in this lifetime. The Life Theorem of Pythagoras is the basis of the Divine Triangle, and as you can see from the blueprint shown earlier, his right triangle is the foundation upon which each of the squares is built. The information that is about to be revealed to you is unique. To our knowledge it has never been published before. Very likely it was lost in the great fire that destroyed the fabulous library at Alexandria many centuries ago. Priceless parchments containing the wisdom of many masters were lost. Faith’s teacher learned the method for using this blueprint from the master KH who, according to some sources, was formerly Pythagoras. Perhaps Pythagoras taught this method to his disciples. Regardless of one’s belief in such things, the blueprint does work; therefore, in our minds, it is valid. Try it for yourself and see. Drawing the Blueprint. The blueprint is set up as follows. The right triangle of Pythagoras occupies the center. Squares are built on each side of the triangle. Each of the 3 lines drawn to complete the square represents 9 years of life. We begin on line AB at the point of entrance indicated by the arrow in figure 2. The lines represent the ages as follows: Line AB: Ages zero to 9 Line BC: Ages 9 to 18 Line CD: Ages 18 to 27 Line DE: Ages 27 to 36 Line EF: Ages 36 to 45 Line FG: Ages 45 to 54 Line GH: Ages 54 to 63 Line HI: Ages 63 to 72 Line IA: Ages 72 to 81 On the figure 2 blueprint, we see that the youth square covers the ages from birth to 27. The power square covers the ages 27 to 54. The wisdom square covers ages 54 through 81. After age 81, we begin again on the youth square, but this time on a higher vibration. Become thoroughly acquainted with the blueprint before proceeding. If you familiarize yourself with it now, the following process will be much easier to understand. Labeling the Blueprint. The Birth date: Using our example, Ada Wynn Lunt, we will place her birth date, November 12, 1940, on the triangle in the center of the blueprint. The birth month 11 goes on the vertical line AD; the birthdate on the horizontal line DG; and the birth year 1940 on the hypotenuse AG. We reduce the double digits. Here the number 11 becomes 2, the number 12 becomes 3, and the year 1940 reduces to 14 and then 5. If the birth month and birth date were single digits, such as May 4, you would simply place 5 for May on line AD and 4 for the day on line DG. The Name: The value of the letters in your name is placed on the lines of the squares. Place the letter and its value on each line. In our example, Ada Wynn Lunt, the letter of the first name, A, and its value, 1, is placed on line AB of the youth square. Place the 2nd letter, D, and its value, 4, on line BC. Place the 3rd letter of the name, A, and its value, 1, on line CD. This completes the youth square, which represents the ages from birth to When you come to the end of your 1st name, place an X on that corner, for it marks an important time in your development. Changes will occur, or a definite event will change your outlook in some way. We place an X at point D because we have completed Ada’s 1st name. Continue with the power square. Place the next letter of the name, in this case W, and its value, 23 or 5, on line DE. Put the following letter, Y, and its value, 25 or 7, on line EF. Put the next letter, N, and its value, 14 or 5, on line FG. This completes the power square, which represents the ages 27 to 54. On the wisdom square, place the next letter of the name, N, and its value, 14 or 5, on line GH. At this point we place another X, because this marks the end of the middle name. The last name is never used on the blueprint, because it is a family vibration and not uniquely your own. Therefore, when you run out of letters, you begin the first name over again. So, in our example, we begin again with the first name. Figure 3: Blueprint for Ada Wynn Lunt, born November 12, 1940. Place the 1st letter of the first name, A, and its value, 1, on line HI. Place the 2nd letter of the first name, D, and its value, 4, on the remaining line, IA. This completes the wisdom square which represents ages 54 to 81. If you or the subject is older than 81, begin again on the new square. The Totals. Now that we have placed the name and birth date on the blueprint, we add the 4 sides of each square for a total which is placed in the center of the square. Always add the higher, unreduced digit in this process. In the youth square, we add 1 + 4 + 1 + 11 for a total of 17 or 8. Place the number 17 or 8 in the center of the youth square. In the power square, add 23 + 25 + 14 + 12 and place the total, 74 or 11, in the center of the square. 74 or 11 is a master number and is not reduced further. In the wisdom square, add 14 + 1 + 4 + 14 for a total of 33 which is placed in the center of the square. 33 is a master number and is not reduced further. Now add the 3 sides of the triangle for a fourth total which is placed in the center of the triangle. Always add the higher digits. 11 + 12 + 14 is 37 or 1. Place 37 or 1 in the center of the triangle. Notice that 37 or 1 is the Life Lesson Number. The number in the center of the triangle is always the Life Lesson Number. Figure 3 shows how the blueprint will look when the totals are written in. The number in the center of the youth square is an umbrella vibration that covers the period of life from birth to age 27; the number in the center of the power square is the fundamental vibration that covers the ages from