business, promotions will result. You may also be a leader in family affairs. Through the letter J you will almost always experience gain and advantage in some form. J as a health factor gives a feeling of well-being. S IS A LETTER OF ENDURANCE. The ancients called it “the letter of surrender.” You are spiritually intense and can sting or charm. S brings love and new starts into life and attracts money, but it is not always a happy letter. S at a peak cycle will triumph over obstacles to attain ambitions. There will be many turnings in your life’s path. If you are responding negatively to this letter, there will be emotional upheavals, failure and uncontrolled impulses. Be positive. S as a health factor may sharpen an illness but it also tends to bring recovery and reduce trouble, thus creating better conditions. The 2’s. B IN A WOMAN’S NAME indicates mother love. B in a man’s name means love of nature and domesticity. It is not a strong material letter. You can go to great heights and equally great depths. You are emotional and fixed in your opinions. Your instinct is to follow others. You are hospitable, but if B is negatively expressed, you become selfish. B at a peak cycle is influenced by psychological currents. This letter brings strong desire for partnerships or marriage. The lesson is patience, calmness and serenity of mind. Decisions should be left to others. This is a cycle of hidden development which may not be recognized by others. B as a health factor can cause nervousness, headaches and emotional upsets. K MEANS EXTREMES in fortune, health and spirituality. You are very versatile, idealistic and intuitive. You either enjoy great success or suffer abject misery. The solution is service to others. Use your leadership abilities for humanity and not for self-glorification. K at a peak cycle displays creative inspiration and idealism. It should be directed toward a positive goal, or this cycle may result in conflict. There is great emotional force here for either intense romantic experience or spiritual exaltation. It brings travel and change and can bring success if caution is used. K as a health factor indicates nervousness, which may come from overactivity. But it is a good force, giving strength and endurance. T WILL EITHER BUILD or break down, save or slay the human race. You like to control everyone within your influence, to shape things to your own liking. You have to learn self-control, as you are very emotional and can be swayed. If positive, you develop high spirituality, as the quality of the 2 is reinforced by the 0 of God’s protection. T at a peak cycle represents reconstruction. This influence creates a sense of restlessness unless ideas are expressed through practical activity that can benefit humanity. Time should not be wasted nor idleness tolerated. This is a time to work for better world conditions. It is also a time of spiritual growth. T as a health factor indicates stress through change or travel. If it is with an A, there can be accidents and operations. The 3’s. C IS SCATTERED ENERGY. 3 is a scattering vibration because it wants to go in many directions at once. If C is the first letter, you have a jovial nature but are apt to have an emotional life. You find it difficult to save money. You like to have several lines of effort going at once. You are a good talker and promoter and seldom worry over anything. At times, you can be impatient, irritable and impulsive, and if negative, careless and immoral. C at a peak cycle favors artistic, political or business success. It is good for self-expression, productivity and growth. There should be rich emotional experiences, prosperity and happiness. This is a strong marriage vibration. C as a health factor may cause concern with the throat, thyroid and vocal cords. L GATHERS where C scatters. You always bring to completion anything you start. You are generous but want returns from your giving. L as a whip symbol indicates action, and since you have executive ability, you are a leader. You are moral, balanced, honest and intellectual, and you may attain spirituality. L indicates travel. L at a peak cycle brings service and self-sacrifice, but also rich rewards in human relationships. Creative ideas bring profit. This letter can bring marriage and increasing concern with financial matters. L as a health factor suggests paying attention to the throat, which is true under all 3’s. Two L’s together tend toward accidents or falls. U HAS THE UNIVERSAL spirit of both the C and the L. U is shaped like a cup that holds the gifts of talent, charm and luck, but if you become greedy and try to fill your cup too full, you may lose through selfishness. You are an enthusiastic collector and you will be tenacious in holding onto the things you accumulate. U is called the rocker letter, and you can be a victim of indecision. While you are deciding, someone else may take things away from you. You have a good memory and should make an effort to have a positive attitude. U at a peak cycle indicates a time for subconscious development. There may be delays and restrictions now, and family responsibilities can increase, but there is a growing sense of security and protection. Marriage is activated. Be cautious under a U, because things tend to slip away, often through a personal fault, such as overlooking and neglecting to grasp an opportunity. Matters should be examined carefully, and a lawyer consulted in business deals. U as a health factor tends to bring loss and anxiety. Worries cause other ills, such as high blood pressure. Strive to remain calm and at peace within. The 4’s. D IS BALANCE. It acts as a good anchor. You are strong in material matters, determined and stubborn. You have good business ability. You are a good worker, steady and practical, a builder who takes responsibility well. These qualities may bring you a position of authority and power. D at a peak cycle represents a striving to lay a firm foundation for the future. Temporary delays are possible, but valuable lessons in patience can be learned. Speculation should be avoided and conservatism practiced. Travel is possible. D as a health factor is not notable unless there are two D’s together. That can indicate unhappy travel situations and unfortunate probings into your business or personal affairs, which could adversely affect your health. M SPIRITUALIZES the attributes of the D and is more idealistic. You are not a leader but will carry on for others. You have psychic powers. You may have to carry burdens in this life, but there is no one who bears the cross more bravely and with so little complaint. You have a receptive nature and may bear burdens for others because of the sacrificial aspects of this vibration. You like home and security above all. M at a peak cycle looks for regeneration and renewal. It is a reconstruction period when old ideas are swept away to make room for better ones. Unexpected changes can occur now, and they should be recognized as a door to progress where a new phase of happiness will open. M as a health factor can indicate temper, causing rash behavior and headaches. Because of the potential for drastic changes, more than one M can be dangerous unless dealt with carefully. Two of any letter doubles its effects. V IS THE MASTER BUILDER. You are fixed in your opinions, firm in your friendships and square in your dealings with others. You are an excellent worker. Since you are both possessive and emotional, you can be either very practical or very impractical and unpredictable. Your dual nature needs to become steadfast. You are the marrying kind. V at a peak cycle has the potential of wanderlust coupled with too much generosity or extravagance with money. If V appears together with U there could be losses in speculation or gambling. At the worst, there could be dissipation and excess—at best, courage in the face of difficulties. V as a health factor can cause nervous and emotional breakdowns through overactivity. Cultivate peace within. The 5’s. E IS A STRONG VOWEL ruled by Mercury, the cosmic messenger. You are fine when in harmony but changeable when in discord, because many of your best qualities are then reversed. You are more attracted to the worldly than to the spiritual. You are entertaining but may be impulsive. Freedom is a necessity, and you find it difficult to settle down to specialize. Your versatility results in many changes, and often brings travel. Your fine intellect is capable of high honors if applied seriously. If you are drawn to the spiritual, you become idealistic, hopeful and intuitive. E at a peak cycle will have to choose among many chances for change. There will be constant activity, new people and new situations. If you are single, there is the opportunity now for marriage, but you should be sure it is true love rather than emotional impulse. E as a health factor indicates good health. The heart feels free, but impulsiveness should be controlled. N IS THE ANCIENT SYMBOL for a scribe; therefore, this letter implies a person with a vivid imagination who can bring inspired messages to the world. You must remain positive, or instability will result. You like to enjoy the pleasures of life, and when self is overcome, you can rise to the heights. Envy, jealousy and divorce are common to someone whose name contains an N. N at a peak cycle brings variety, change and experiences. It is favorable for commercial or political enterprises and may involve much competition. N as a health factor can cause irritability because of emotional upsets brought on by thoughts of marriage. If N occurs with a G, marriage has a very good outcome. If N and T are together, marriage prospects and harmony after marriage are certain. W, TO EXPRESS ITSELF, must follow the divine law of love. You have great persistence and hate to give up. You are a good mixer, charming, magnetic and intuitive. If negative, you can be selfish, greedy and too daring. W at a peak cycle signifies an alternation between the heights and the depths. This is a time for self-evaluation and for finding your potential. This cycle can bring marriage. W as a health factor can bring headaches due to the nervous and impulsive vibration of the letter. The 6’s. F HAS THE STRONG characteristics of Venus. You are kind, home loving, hospitable and friendly. Since you take responsibility well, you are a good organizer of social affairs. Compassion for others is an outstanding trait. If F is expressed negatively, you are sad. F at a peak cycle centers your attention on family matters and duties connected with loved ones, whether married or not. It is time to learn the meaning of willing service, because the alternatives may be disappointing. Wise choices are necessary. F as a health factor indicates trouble, including nervous conditions of the heart. If F is with an N, illness is possible. If F is with U or O, watch your financial matters, or losses may occur. O IS PATIENT, persevering and strong willed. You are a good student, absorbing knowledge easily and retaining it well. Jealousy can cause upsets in marriage relationships and home conditions; therefore you must learn emotional control. O stands for virtue or vice; there is no middle path. You are either a saint or a sinner. O at peak cycle presents an opportunity for progress by allowing a release from present limitations. A radical change in viewpoint may occur, and fears can be erased. If O is with a G, there is gain. If O is with a U, losses are possible, and if O is with a D, there will be expenses incurred through necessary travel, plus the possibility of changes in the home. O as a health factor can cause worry and depression if you are responding to its negative side. Slowing down can prevent heart irregularities and despondencies. O is compatible with religious matters; therefore, prayer can help and inspire. X IS A DUAL LETTER - the upper half is open to receive the better things in life, the lower half is open to overindulgence, especially of the sexual nature. If positive, you can advance mentally and spiritually. If negative, you are angry, unfaithful and sensuous. X at a peak cycle flashes a danger signal at the crossroads, a warning of deceit. If the positive side is expressed, financial matters will be beneficial, and good relations with people of influence will be established. X as a health factor indicates a danger of falls and or injury to the back. It is better not to ride a horse during this period, or to travel to high places. Mountain climbing should be postponed. The 7’s. G IS RELIGIOUS and mystically inclined with a deep understanding. You are inventive, intuitive and extremely methodical. Since your will is so strong, you are hard to convince. You also dislike advice. G at a peak cycle is a time of expansion, productivity and material success. It is favorable for the arts, music, drama or literature. G as a health factor is always good. If illness occurs, there is help toward recovery. G occurring with a D or an F indicates financial gain. P CONFERS POWER of expression, either in speaking or writing. You are clever, clear-sighted and intellectual. You can be dominating and rather impatient if restricted. If negative, you will be selfish and unsympathetic. P at a peak cycle presents bright prospects for the future. Because of your creative talents, good fortune is in store. Plan wisely and aim toward the future during this cycle. P as a health factor indicates that you should not overwork while under this letter. If P is with a G, health is good; if with a T or B, nervous conditions may arise. Y NEEDS FREEDOM; physical, mental and spiritual. You hate bondage in any form. You have a love of beauty and philosophy, and you desire achievement. Pythagoras referred to the letter Y as the two roads which require that choices be made. Y at a peak cycle brings sudden change, since it is a branching cycle quick decisions are necessary. Decide firmly and refuse to look back or regret the past. Make the best of things after the choice is made. Y as a health factor gives a feeling of well being and protection while on water. The 8’s. H MUST CREATE and fulfill. You attract success and money, but will either be very wealthy or very poor because your good judgment fails at times. You are a lover of nature and do not need others for your happiness. H is a power letter, sufficient unto itself. If negative, you are selfish. H at a peak cycle acts as a gate to the path of life, a gate which can be either a barrier or an opening. This is a time when the cosmic laws are working toward completion of karma. There is concern with financial or legal affairs and with the physical and material side of life. H as a health factor can bring personal strain. If H is with an N, nervous strain and even illness are possible. Q HAS MORE ORIGINALITY than H and more intensity of feeling. You are a leader. You have a fine mind, and you like to talk. A relationship with unknown forces gives you secret strength and an air of mystery. You are deep. Q at a peak cycle grants great mental vitality, intuitive power and creative attainment. There is opportunity for outstanding leadership and distinction in your career. This is a good time for public activity and travel. Encourage others unselfishly. Q as a health factor indicates a period of strong health. Z HOLDS ALL THE QUALITIES of H and Q but it is more spiritual. You have aspiration and inspiration, hope and guidance. Since you are intuitive and perceptive, you understand human nature. You have the power to achieve. Diplomacy and discretion make you a good mediator. Z at a peak cycle runs a zig-zag course in a cycle of hidden progress. Though there are setbacks, you are advancing to a higher level. In this period, learn patience and its rewards. Z as a health factor gives control over illness. There may be a need to control others or to carry out secret missions in healing. The 9’s. I IS A LAW unto itself. Your tendency is to finish whatever you start. You can be very obstinate if limited, and you chafe under dictatorship. Since I is an artistic vowel, you like to use the pen or the needle (writing, fashion design etc.). You make a good lecturer but can also do clerical work. You can become loving, compassionate, intuitive and humanitarian. Runs of luck, either good or bad, follow you. If negative, you have a nervous, quick temper. I at a peak cycle creates an interlude of ups and downs. By standing firm on your convictions, great inspiration results. Wavering will bring fluctuations in fortune, resulting in new beginnings. This is a period when personal feelings are paramount; sensitivity, sympathy and intuition are high. I as a health factor brings nervousness, probably caused by over-exertion. Intense emotions can cause exhaustion. R HOLDS ALL THE POSSIBILITIES of the I, except that it represents the brighter side of the 9’s. You are tolerant and like to help humanity. You are very active. If negative, you may have to guard against losses. If R is followed by an I, you may be touchy and irritable. R at a peak cycle provides an opening for new plans and ideas, calling for a new occupation in life. Resolve to attain status through this period. Since the pace is fast, there is a need to slow down somewhat. R as a health factor is called the growler letter, indicating undercurrent rumblings, but not very harmful unless two R’s are stimulated into action at the same time. If negatively expressed, accidents may occur through rashness or carelessness, which can bring on sickness. Your Career. Choosing a career is an important step in your life. If you have more than one talent, you may have difficulty deciding what career course to follow. This is when a study of your numbers and their particular vibrations can help. Your numbers indicate your abilities; use them to plan your future. Your career number is your Life Lesson Number. To find it, add the numbers in your birthdate. Always add the whole number of the month and day, without breaking them down to a single digit. Add the year number through once and use the total in your computation. For example, 1945 is 1 + 9 + 4 + 5, which equals 19. Use 19 for the year 1945. November 12, 1940 is a career number 1. 11 + 12 + 14 equals 37 or 1. Or put another way: 1 + 9 + 4 + 0 is 14, or 1. If your birthdate totals a master number, do not reduce it. Many times the same vocation is found under different numbers. In those cases, look at the other careers in that career number to help you determine how you would use that particular vocation. For example, lawyer appears under numbers 2, 3, 6, 7, 8 and 9. In number 3 it would be expressed as a court lawyer, in number 7 as a divorce lawyer, in number 8 as a corporate lawyer, patent attorney or financial advisor, and so on. Now read the descriptions below to find out your compatible careers. 1 AS A CAREER NUMBER: Inventor, designer, aviator, leader of a group, department or business organization. Ambassador, director, program planner, store owner, officer in the military. Producer of motion pictures, television or theater productions. Lecturer, promoter, sales manager, engineer, executive, explorer. Creative work of all kinds. 2 AS A CAREER NUMBER: Diplomat, agent, caterer, clerk, lawyer, insurance adjuster or any position that demands arbitration. Architect, bookkeeper, bill collector, custodian, legislator, librarian, minister, foreign minister, politician, teacher. 3 AS A CAREER NUMBER: Artist, musician, nurse, dietician, physician. Writer, entertainer, cosmetician, salesperson of cosmetics or art supplies. An artisan in any line. Lawyer, judge, engineer, pastor, priest, playground director, athletic coach, scout director, vocational school teacher, philosopher. A 3 should avoid positions of close confinement or long hours, as self-expression is necessary for happiness and best work. 4 AS A CAREER NUMBER: All building trades, numerologist, farmer, miner, industrialist, mason, draft person, mechanic, accountant, undertaker, efficiency expert, executive, professional boxer, engineer, mechanic, chemist, laboratory technician. 5 AS A CAREER NUMBER: Salesperson, advertising executive, investigator or detective, writer, teacher, lecturer, copy reader, news columnist, editor, any career in communications. Graphologist, proofreader, publisher, playwright, TV or radio operator, actor, secretary, consultant, psychology or language teacher, interpreter, import-export dealer. 6 AS A CAREER NUMBER: Actor, host or hostess, homemaker, teacher, writer, nurse, doctor. Interior decorator, artist, florist, singer, voice teacher, tutor. Beautician, dressmaker or designer, fashion expert, musician, perfumer, incense chemist, herbalist. Any branch of theater work. Marriage counselor, divorce attorney. The 6 needs to be in service to others in some way. 7 AS A CAREER NUMBER: Archeologist, astrologer, engineer, healer, preacher, author, dentist, farmer, lawyer, photographer, psychic investigator, any sort of research work. Could do library work as cataloger or indexer. A 7 dislikes manual labor and does best in an atmosphere of refinement and culture. 8 AS A CAREER NUMBER: Banker, financier, engineer, undertaker, chemist, carpenter, crime investigator, druggist, exterminator, firearms or dynamite expert. Lawyer, organizer, supervisor, philanthropist, manufacturer, architect, broker. 9 AS A CAREER NUMBER: Researcher, electrician, explorer, magician, narcotics agent, scientist, doctor, teacher, preacher, lecturer, surgeon, diplomat. Iron worker, artist, musician, lawyer, spiritual healer, horticulturist, landscape gardener. 11 AS A CAREER NUMBER: Inspirational writer, teacher, lecturer, promoter, sales manager, leader in public affairs. Professional in metaphysical work, astrologer, astronomer, numerologist. Electrician, space age electronics expert, astronaut. 22 AS A CAREER NUMBER: Executive, diplomat, ambassador, government agent, adjuster, mediator, humanitarian, librarian, school superintendent. A 22 belongs in public service or in an advisory capacity in some way. 33 AS A CAREER NUMBER: Professor of Bible interpretation, public servant. A 33 birthdate is usually destined for sacrificial service in some capacity. It could be a life of nurturing or of giving up one’s own career in order to serve a parent, a community or the world. 44 AS A CAREER NUMBER: Farmer, builder, doctor, nurse, dietician, soldier, politician, banker, businessman, social worker. A 44 must contribute to the world in a substantial, materialistic way. Number Compatibility. Many people like to determine their compatibility with someone else. We can do this by comparing Life Lesson Numbers. This is the number that has the heaviest influence on our lives. Here we will use only the single digit of the Life Lesson Number. If you have a master number, reduce it to a single digit and work with that single number. For those who do not wish to reveal their birthdate, simply have them figure their own Life Lesson Number and give only the number to you. The following list offers all possible Life Lesson Number combinations. Can a 3 be compatible with a 5? Let’s find out. 1 WITH A 1: Since leadership is the keyword for both of you, you would be a dynamic combination. You would both want the same thing at the same time and would join ranks in competition with other forces. You might have to work at harmonizing your personalities since you both tend to be aggressive. This is a combination that requires cooperation, and the necessary endurance to see a project through to its conclusion. 1 WITH A 2: The 1 person has the plans, initiative and leadership qualities, whereas the 2 person has the tact and the co-operative and supportive talents to carry out the plans and ideas initiated by the 1. The 1 person is innovative and the 2 person is supportive, and a perfect agent or promoter for those innovations. As partners, mates or co-workers, you will be winners because each has what the other lacks. 1 WITH A 3: By combining the originality and leadership abilities of the 1 person with the 3 person’s charm, magnetism and know-how in expanding an idea and making it into a real success, this combination can bring honor and fame as well as happiness. The only real danger is that the 1 person can be impulsive, and the 3 person can scatter his or her energies, but by concentrating their combined talents, almost anything can be accomplished. 1 WITH A 4: This combination gives a firm foundation for business success. The 1 person acts as the decision maker, plus supplying creative, inventive and original talents. However, the 1 person needs the practicality, thoroughness and steadying support of the 4 person as a restraint on impulsiveness. The 1 person can irritate the 4 with impulsiveness, whereas the 4 person can irritate the 1 with extreme caution. But, all in all, this is a good combination. 1 WITH A 5: Both of you are active, changeable and original, with a dash of versatility. The two of you can have the world by the tail, and can learn and earn a lot together. The 5 person can sell the ideas of the 1 person. Educational projects would be ideal for you as a team, but let the 5 person take care of the publicity. 1 WITH A 6: The number 6 person loves art, socializing, beauty and luxury, and these worlds can be opened by the 1 person who provides the sparkle, drive and leadership for fruitful outcomes. There can be friction if the 1 person insists on his or her own way, so a co-operative effort in a cultural field such as interior decorating, landscape gardening, gourmet cooking or the like could be rewarding for this team. 1 WITH A 7: A spiritual or metaphysical relationship could work well here. The 1 person must not be too demanding or hasty, because the 7 person needs time for privacy, analysis and thought. Where the 1 person is the extrovert, the 7 person is the introvert, and each should be aware of the other’s need for independence. The 7 person should communicate ideas and follow the leadership of the 1 person, acting as a brake for the impulsiveness of the 1 person. This can be a powerful combination. 1 WITH AN 8: You are both aggressive, used to making your own decisions, so it’s either cooperate willingly or become rivals and antagonists. If you calm down as a unit and use your combined powers wisely and with careful analysis, there is great power and courage in the face of difficulties. Pool your energies and talents and be winners together, otherwise you may destroy each other. This is a strong business combination. 1 WITH A 9: The 9 person’s depth of vision and breadth of understanding combined with the originality and dash of the 1 person can create a combination of inventive genius. The 1 person is the pusher in this partnership, supplying the diverse ideas which fall upon seasoned and wise ears. Together the courage and wisdom of this combination make it one that will go far towards success. 2 WITH A 2: Perfect equilibrium and equal sharing are the watchwords here. You both like to build experiences, and are able to give and receive understanding. Learn to work with, rather than for, the other, and you will both share in the material benefits of your partnership. You are both extremely aware of the other person’s point of view, and must not become so bogged down that you cannot effectively make decisions and take action. 2 WITH A 3: This is a popularity combination. While the 2 person knows how to win friends and contracts and keep things running harmoniously, the 3 person can expand upon friendships and inject life and spontaneity into them. The 3 person’s creative talents can be effectively managed and balanced by the 2 person’s ability to stay in the background and take care of the practical aspects of keeping things on the right track. 2 WITH A 4: There is no competition or friction in this combination of numbers. In fact, you each bring out the best side of the other. There is great harmony and understanding in whatever endeavors you undertake. The 2 person acts as a harmonizer and coordinator, and the 4 person plans the practical basis for solid foundations. You would both do well in home building, real estate, farming and other related professions. 2 WITH A 5: This partnership will produce an “all or nothing” experience. The 2 person would be better off to take second place, waiting until his or her strength is needed. The 5 person can talk and plan for both, and friction could occur if the 2 person pours cold water on the 5’s wit and brilliance. If he or she can hold the 5’s attention and interest, the 2 person can sustain the 5’s ideas and help bring them into fruition. 2 WITH A 6: This can be an extremely successful combination of numbers. The tact and magnetism of the 2 person combined with the love of beauty and the appreciation of home and family of the 6 person can attract the confidence of others who see these two people as sensitive, caring, artistic and co-operative. The public will respond to your combined charms. You would do well in charity work, financial drives or any organizational work to do with homes, children or domestic affairs. 2 WITH A 7: This is an extremely harmonious combination and creates no friction; rather the need is to guard against too much serenity. There is