Adam, and Abraham the ninth from Noah. Adam had three sons—Cain (body), Abel (soul) and Seth (replacement for Abel to carry the spiritual light). In a parallel situation, Noah also had three sons: Shem (spirit), Ham (physical nature) and Japhet (mental nature). These names represented the growth of humanity in consciousness after 18 cycles of change. Abram meant father, while Abraham implied the added faith in God which he had come to realize. At 99 years of age, Abraham begat Isaac, whose name meant joy in divine sonship. Isaac begat Jacob, whose name meant illumination through unfolding soul. Jacob’s 12 sons (Genesis 35 verses 22 to 27) refer to the twelve types of consciousness represented by the 12 character types in the signs of the zodiac. To study the whole Bible in this light is to have a lifetime of fascinating discovery. It can be said that Hebrew, more than any other language, offers us a great opportunity to study the profound power and significance of names. Here is a short list of keywords for the numbers in biblical times: 0. Source before manifestation. 1. God, the one immutable divine unity. 2. Duality; human, not divine. 3. Attributes of 1 + 2 equals 3; union of divine and human qualities. 4. The idea of solidity—steadfastness. 5. Humanity with its five developed senses. 6. Equilibrium, fitness, peace. 7. Humanity’s septenary nature, cyclic fullness. 8. Accumulation, strength, power, augmentation. 9. Consolidation, conservation, humaneness. (The true mission of the 9 is to serve as a minister of God on earth.) 10. God and humanity, father-mother-deity, completion. Modern numerology has grown partly from these concepts. The numbers and letters reflect meanings from the past coupled with many added spiritual interpretations. Meanings of our names today have deep significance and can be delineated letter by letter and number by number as we attain cycles of expression year by year in our own lives. These are fully explained in earlier chapters of this book. 0. GENESIS, which means “first cause,” relates to the primordial source. The first few verses of Genesis pertain only to the one God, as divine creator, who brings the world into existence out of the void, or from the unmanifest. 1. LET THERE BE LIGHT (Genesis 1 verse 3). The first spiritual emanation was light. If our soul continues to follow the light, we will get back to our source. 1 stands for a beginning, a new start and unity. 2. AND GOD DIVIDED the light from the darkness (Genesis 1 verse 4). In 2 there is duality, day and night, heaven and earth, man and woman and all pairs of opposites. Thus the development of choice began between good and evil, true and false and positive and negative. Pythagoras says: 2 is the imperfect condition into which being falls, when it becomes detached from the monad, God. Manly Hall in The Mystical Christ, states: When the eyes of the both are opened, the sight of the soul is obscured. 3. THE FIRST TRINITY; Adam and Eve and child. Thus 3 means manifestation and expansion. Other trinities survive in our world - body, soul, and spirit, and the 3 divisions of mind—conscious, subconscious and super-conscious. 4. MANY BIBLICAL REFERENCES are taken from the cycles of the natural world. The symbology of the four seasons and four winds is embodied in Ezekiel’s vision of the 4 living creatures: the face of a man, the face of a lion, the face of an ox and the face of an eagle (Ezekiel 1 verses 5 to 14). These four relate to the four fixed signs of the zodiac. The four elements appear symbolically as the birds of the air, the fish of the sea, the fire of the Lord and the products of the earth. Genesis 2 verses 10 to 14 tells of the river out of Eden which parted into 4 heads. The rivers were named Pison, Gihon, Hiddekel and Euphrates. Metaphysically these names mean spirit (fire), breath (air), body (earth) and blood (water). These symbolize spirit, mind, body and soul which are the 4 principles that vitalize the material body during the earth life. 5. METAPHYSICALLY a river represents vital force. Human beings are the container of this force, as a garden symbolizes the body. The river of Genesis 2 verses 10 to 14, described under number 4, represents the flow of humanity itself throughout the earth, which divides and divides until it covers all the earth. The 5 is the number of humanity with our five developed senses. The five senses are introduced in the early chapters of Genesis to indicate that the senses are essential in human creation; and therefore 5 is the number of humanity. Five plays an important part in the story of David and Goliath: and David chose five smooth stones out of the brook” and David took a stone and smote the Philistine Goliath in the forehead. The stone sunk into the forehead and he fell to the ground, (First Samuel 17 verse 40). The 5 stones represent the spiritualization of David’s senses. David believed in the indwelling God of love and had learned to depend upon the spiritual power within himself. According to a mystical legend, when David touched the five stones they became as one stone, thus combining the total powers of his senses. The name Goliath means material power; thus the story is meant to demonstrate the power of the spiritual over the material. 6. THE PREPARATIONS for the emergence of humanity had all been made during the 5 days of creation, so on the sixth day, God made human beings. In the image of God created He him, male and female created He them (Genesis 1 verse 27). So 6 is associated with generation, motherhood, fatherhood, domesticity and service. Home, family and children are the concerns of 6; human relationships and love abound. Moses, the first lawgiver, patterned the Ten Commandments after the Lord’s example of creating the universe in 6 days. 6 days shalt thou labor and do all thy work (Exodus 20 verse 9). Therefore 6 is related to labor and service, as shown by the sixth sign of the zodiac, Virgo. Through love, the sixth sense is to be developed as people demonstrate their godliness. The Book of Ruth is keyed to the number 6 and to love. In Ruth 3 verse 15, Boaz gives Ruth 6 measures of barley, symbolic of love and protection. 7. IS THE PRINCIPLE NUMBER in the Bible; it is used innumerable times (some say over 360) throughout both Old and New Testaments. But the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord thy God... For in six days the Lord made heaven and earth... and rested the seventh day; wherefore the Lord blessed the seventh day and hallowed it (Exodus 20:10-11). One of the most profound examples of the use of the symbolic number 7 is related to the fall of Jericho in the Book of Joshua, 6 verses 1 to 20: And the Lord said unto Joshua: And ye shall compass the city... and go round about the city once. Thus shalt thou do six days... And the priests shall bear before the ark seven trumpets of rams’ horns: and the seventh day ye shall compass the city seven times, and the priests shall blow with the trumpets. When they make a long blast with the ram’s horn and when ye hear the sound of the trumpet, all the people shall shout with a great shout, and the wall of the city shall fall down flat. It becomes evident that the fall of Jericho was not by warfare but rather was by the principle of the 7. Victory was achieved by means of the positive vibration of sound which had been built up to a tremendous power. 8. THE MYSTERY of the 8 is that of eternal and continuous spiral motion, which is constant throughout the universe. The life force currents sweep through the body in the form of a figure 8, following the cerebro-spinal and the sympathetic nervous systems, like radiations of light. This is why in deep meditation one sees a real light within. The infinity symbol, the horizontal 8, means as above, so below. It is a symbol of power. In Genesis 17 verse 10 the rite and covenant of circumcision was to be performed on the eighth day of a man child’s life. This was considered one of the most important covenants between God and humanity. 9. IS THE ULTIMATE, containing the forces of all the other numbers. It stands for a complete cycle of growth. The nine generations from Adam to Noah and from Noah to Abraham indicate stages of growth and development. Noah was the ninth from Adam, and Abraham was the ninth from Noah. When Abram received his covenant from God and his new name, Abraham, he was ninety and nine years old (Genesis 17 verses 1 to 5). Symbolically, his age reduces to a 9, to indicate that this was a period of time in which a spiritual cycle had been completed. The addition of the Hebrew Heh (H) to Abram’s name carries a 9 vibration as well. New Testament. In the first 4 books of the New Testament, Matthew, Mark, Luke and John, the writers express their Christian teachings mostly by allegory and parable. These are meant to be interpreted in various ways; some apply to the cosmic world as a whole, some to our solar system, some to the entire human race and some to individuals. Since a person is called the microcosm within the macrocosm, an individual represents, in miniature, all that is, was and will be. As in the Old Testament, symbology is used also to point out significant hidden meanings in names and numbers. The art and science of numerology is one of the most obvious methods employed, although a deep understanding of the basic meanings of numbers is necessary for a complete unravelling of inner meanings. The New Testament describes the path of faith. Faith is the conscious acceptance of wisdom and love. When faith is strong the mind is at peace and the body is free of tension. Faith is a mystical conviction that God is presently a power within the individual. The instinct to believe is as strong as the instinct to survive, impelling one to search for a philosophy to sustain one’s hopes and desires on the journey through life. It is said that primitive people were mystics by instinct, and that modem people are mystics by intuition. In Christian teachings Christ is the revelation of the love and forgiveness of God. The Sermon on the Mount (Matthew 5 verse 17) is the code of mystic Christianity, and it is in the faithful heart that the Sermon is understood. The 12 disciples of Jesus represent an extension of the twelve tribes of Israel. The 72 other disciples correspond to the six elders chosen from each of the original 12 tribes. The Pythagorean dodecahedron (a twelve-sided symmetrical figure which can be compared to the 12 lines of the Divine Triangle) represents the universe as related to humanity. This indicates that the individual has within himself the potential of the 12 powers as they relate to the inherent attributes within the 12 signs of the zodiac. The search for knowledge is motivated by the desire to understand the self in relation to God. The New Testament writers symbolically applied all the basic numbers to express their ideas, but made more references to specific numbers relating to the seven-fold human body, to the divine potential of the human mind and soul and to spiritual destiny. Many years elapsed between the writing of the Old and New Testaments which allowed time for much expansion of human consciousness. As a result, many more meanings for the numbers had accrued. The use of symbolism had grown and was liberally employed as a means of revelation. 1 IS THE ZERO made more manifest; it is the self, independence and unity. In the beginning was the Word; and the Word was God (John 1 verse 1). 1 is the basis or cause of a beginning; it is a start, a creative idea for expression. 2 ENCOMPASSES ALL PAIRS of opposites: male and female, spirit and matter, heaven and hell. No man can serve two masters; ye cannot serve God and Mammon (Matthew 6 verse 24). There is always a choice to be made between the pairs of opposites; thus we are warned that in duality there is danger. A house divided against itself shall not stand (Matthew 12 verse 25). But, if two agree, it shall be done (Matthew 18 verse 19). 3 SYMBOLIZES THE TRINITY, triad and trine; the 3 dimensions. In a larger sense, the 3 stands for multiplication and growth. Three of the disciples went with Jesus into the garden of Gethsemane. They were Peter, James and John; these 3 stand for light, life and love. And Jesus went apart and prayed 3 times... each time He returned to find them asleep. The inner meaning is that Jesus felt that light, life and love were forsaking Him, as He said in His prayer: Father, let this cup pass from me; nevertheless, Thy will be done (Matthew 26 verses 37 to 45; Mark 14 verses 32 to 41). Jesus asked Peter 3 times: Lovest thou me? (John 21 verses 15 to 17). The three inquiries refer to love on the 3 planes of consciousness - the conscious mind, the subconscious mind and the super-conscious mind. If two or three are gathered together in my name, there am I in the midst of them (Matthew 18 verse 20). This also refers to the 3 parts of the mind, declaring that if all agree, the Christ power will prevail. The story of Jesus is a story of 3’s. He rose after 3 days and he was denied thrice by Peter. The fact that Jesus was crucified between two thieves is symbolic of the divided system of belief which has stolen many of the true teachings. Christ sat down with the twelve, a higher vibration of 3. Judas bargained for 30 pieces of silver, again a vibration of 3. 4 STANDS FOR LAW and order, measurement, the physical and material realms, reason, logic, the square and the cross. Whenever a number is made up of straight lines, it symbolizes the divine principle; therefore the 4 and the 7 are called sacred numbers. The symbols are the square and the cross. The cross is always a sacred symbol wherever found. Traditionally, the equal-armed cross represented man. With the coming of Christ, the horizontal line of the cross was raised from the umbilical center to the heart center. It is not necessarily a Christian symbol; other spiritual leaders have died on the cross such as Krishna of India, Thamus of Syria, Hesus of the Druids, Mithra of Persia and Quexalcotl of Mexico. And He was there in the wilderness forty days tempted by Satan; and was with the wild beasts, and the angels ministered unto him (Mark 1 verse 13). 40 is used in a Scripture to indicate a completed cycle of retreat from things of the world in preparation for something better to follow. On the morning of the fourth day after he died, Lazarus (meaning lack of spiritual understanding) lay in the tomb, bound hand and foot, with grave clothes wound around him. The fourth dawning day is when spiritual understanding shall release us from the grave of materialism and bring awakening to the one light. At the fourth watch, just as gray dawn was breaking, they beheld one walking on the water (Matthew 14 verse 25). This refers metaphorically to the dawning of Aquarian Age, the age of community. 5 STANDS FOR MEDIATION, understanding and judgment. The ancients represented the world by the number 5, the explanation being that in 5 are represented the four elements earth, water, fire and air, plus the fifth essence, ether or spirit. Five became the number of humanity with the five developed senses. It is the great work of human beings to gain control over the five senses, after which the sixth sense, intuition develops. The five wounds of Christ symbolize the suffering endured while in the flesh, which leads us to turn to God. In the parable of the five wise and the five foolish virgins (Matthew 25 verse 3), they that were foolish took their lamps and took no oil with them. But the wise took oil in their vessels with their lamps. The oil relates to the anointed, or those who had light. Human beings can choose the light or reject it by their actions. Interestingly, the word oil is a 9-powered word which means a completed cycle of attainment. 6 IS THE NUMBER OF BALANCE, harmony, cooperation, marriage, connubiality and beauty. And there were set there 6 water pots of stone (John 2 verse 6) for the wedding feast. A wedding represents love (as does the number 6) at its most blissful state in earthly consciousness. The 6 expresses universal love, for out of the sorrows of personal love, the soul awakens to the higher life which leads to illumination or adept ship. Jesus’s first miracle changed six pots of water to wine. 7 IS THE NUMBER OF REST, cessation but not ceasing, safety, and the full measure of the triad and the quaternary. One of the greatest heritages from the Christian Scriptures is the sevenfold path of the Lord’s prayer. The seven statements express the triad and the quaternary (Matthew 6 verses 9 to 13): 1. Our Father which art in heaven, 2. Hallowed be Thy Name. 3. Thy kingdom come, Thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. 4. Give us this day our daily bread, and 5. Forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. 6. Lead us not into temptation, 7. But deliver us from evil. The final statement (“For Thine is the kingdom, and the power and the glory, forever”) was added much later to symbolize return to the heavenly state. 8 STANDS FOR INVOLUTION AND EVOLUTION, for cycles of ebb and flow, infinity, rhythm, advancement, strength and confidence. The 8 is not a primary number in the New Testament. Rather, we find the 8 figures heavily in the eight-fold path of the Buddha and in occult literature. 9 REFERS TO COMPLETION, attainment, fulfillment, regeneration and revelation. Many words in the Bible are used for their symbolic meanings and teachings mystically concealed. Bread and wine are usually linked together. Bread is a 3-powered word; wine is a 6-powered word; together they form a symbol of the 9-power of regeneration. Thus the serving of bread and wine means that one is to partake of a regenerative process when taking communion. In the Book of Revelation there are two numbers whose meanings have caused much discussion. These two numbers, the 666 and the 144,000 both vibrate to a 9. The 144,000 who were sealed as members of the Tribes of Israel refers to developed or saved humanity. The seal refers to the protective sign in their foreheads (Revelations 9 verse 4). The 666, described as the number of the beast (Revelations 13 verse 18), refers to humanity functioning at the materialistic unregenerated level. Thus these two numbers mystically refer to the evolution of humanity, either as lost (666) or saved (144,000). Humanity, symbolically called the hand of God, demonstrates the same principle. Hand is a 9-powered word and refers to humanity as one of God’s helpers in bringing forth His Kingdom. The nine statements of blessing in the Sermon on the Mount, which show a completed cycle, represent the essence of the New Testament teaching that the greatest of all power is love. Love is a 9-powered word. He that loveth not knoweth not God, for God is love (First John 4 verse 8). God is love, and he that dwelleth in love, dwelleth in God, and God in him (First John 4 verse 16). In the ninth hour - the hour of prayer - Christ on the cross said, “It is finished” (John 19 verse 30). The numbers 12 and 13 hold a special place in both the Old and New Testaments. 12. THERE WERE 12 Tribes of Israel who were the sons of Jacob. When Jacob gave his blessing to his twelve sons, he was referring not only to twelve individuals, but to the development of 12 attributes to be awakened in the human soul. These paralleled the 12 characteristics of the 12 signs of the zodiac (Genesis 49 verses 1 to 28). The work of these 12 sons dominated most of the Old Testament. Each tribe expressed the qualities of one sign of the zodiac and responded to a certain number. No tribe was wholly good or bad. These 12 signs and their corresponding numbers are operative in the lives of every individual, for each person indeed is a miniature universe. Jesus chose to have twelve apostles. These also relate in character to the twelve signs of the zodiac to make a complete gathering of types of people in the inner circle of followers of Jesus. Thus the vibrational force under the number 12 belongs to the developed soul who has accumulated unusual inner strength through many and varied experiences. 13 IS A NUMBER of special significance. Note that there were twelve apostles, but Jesus, the Christ, made a thirteenth member at the last supper. 12 is the number of solar months in the year, but 13 is the number of lunar months. While the solar vibrations are positive and creative in type, the lunar vibrations are negative and receptive in type. Each, as a reflection of God, is equally important. 13 means either death through degeneration, or life and attainment through regeneration. There are no halfway measures in 13; it requires all or nothing. If 13 is your number, face it and win! “Choose ye this day whom ye will serve” (Joshua 24 verse 15). In Deuteronomy 30 verse 16, Moses said: “See, I have set before thee this day life and good - or death and evil - therefore choose life, and both thou and thy seed shall live.” Incarnation in the flesh represents the soul’s burial in matter, where it loses the power it originally had in the ethereal realm where it was created to be a companion to God. Eating of the Tree of Knowledge of Good and Evil leads to spiritual, not physical, death. When the soul turns from God to self it figuratively dies. We wander about on earth in the flesh, as prodigal sons and daughters, victims of spiritual amnesia. The prodigal, even as you and I, went from the father’s home of his own free will; the father did not send him. Both the Old and the New Testaments contain numerous instances of the use of numerological symbols in the form of parable and allegory. Because every number and letter has a dual meaning, hidden messages are discernible to readers who understand the number-letter codes employed in biblical times. In addition, there are 3 levels of meaning or knowledge which the reader can acquire. The first level comes through the conscious mind and applies to the material or physical world. The second level is absorbed through the subconscious mind and is acquired by means of parables and symbols. The third level deals with revelations on the super-conscious plane of thought and affirms that we must rediscover who we are from within. The Bible is the story of humanity and its generations (growth and attainment), of its degeneration (the prodigal who left his father’s house forgetful of his divinity) and of its regeneration through the possible path of return to the consciousness within which proclaims: “Thy Will be done.” PART 2: DOUBLE-DIGIT DELINEATIONS. YOUR WAY OF SUCCESS and happiness is hidden in your name and birthdate, as well as the ways to overcome the difficulties found there. These paths must be hunted out, understood and explained when analyzing a number chart, because the way to overcome obstacles lies alongside the indicators of success and happiness. It is always a question of action and reaction, whether the positive or the negative choice is taken. When you understand that you have choices, and you know what they are, you can conduct your life in such a way as to attain any goal you set for yourself. It is important that you choose a goal and then examine the way your cosmic gifts have prepared you for its achievement. The meanings of the single digits are explicit; when the single digits are combined to form the double digits, they provide a more complete picture of how you will express your talents. The double digits show patterns of experience; they indicate destiny and point the way to success. These facets of your character cannot be discovered in detail except by careful consideration of the double numbers produced by your name and birthdate. This is primarily a book on numerology, but since we use the double digits up through 78, which is the number of cards in the Tarot deck, we are including brief excerpts of the Tarot philosophy as a further dimension in understanding the numbers. The Tarot keys symbolize ways of determining the strengths and weaknesses of dynamic life forces. Rich in symbolism, the Tarot has from ancient times been used to help people understand the laws of the universe and our relation to these laws. The 22 keys of the Major Arcana relate a story of our lives, of how we are constituted and what our possibilities are. If we all studied and followed these laws, our lives would improve in consciousness and inner security. The 56 minor keys explain the many phases of human life and symbolize ways to face our dilemmas. The Tarot also relates to areas of the zodiac, and for those students who wish to plumb the depths of astrology, we have included in the delineations the astrological assignments for each of the 78 numbers. In fact, the sciences of numerology, astrology and the Tarot coincide and confirm each other so perfectly that we have found it almost impossible to analyze a chart of any kind without somehow including concepts from each science to enhance our understanding of the chart. In their most exalted use, these three sciences will synthesize the knowledge contained in their rich symbolism, so that we may apply it in our lives toward understanding our relationship with God. How to Read Your Number. Suppose your number is 32 or 5: read the delineation for the double number first, then read the delineation for the single digit that it reduces to. Keep in mind that it is the 2 working through the 3 to achieve the base number 5, which is synthesized in the 32 or 5 delineation. A 41 or 5 is an entirely different 5 vibration, with a 1 working through a 4 to achieve the base number 5. A number always has the same meaning, no matter where it appears in your chart, but the expression of its consciousness is determined by its position as your Soul, Outer Personality, Path of Destiny or Life Lesson Number. Therefore it is important to consider where the number is operating. If the vibration is your Soul Number, then you already possess those qualities; however, if it is your Life Lesson Number, you do not possess these qualities but are here to learn them. The numbers on the lines of the blueprint represent energies that will be activated at the time indicated. The same is true of the personal year number, the period number and the personal months. Realize that the numbers indicate an energy which, when activated by your life pattern, will be molded into the space in which you find it. Work with the number in that space and use it for your fullest realization. If the number is your Soul Number, this is what you already are. If it is your Outer Personality Number, this is how others see you. If it is your Path of Destiny Number, this is what you must do. If it is your Life Lesson Number, this is what you must leant. If the base number of the vibration you are working under matches the base number of one of your 4 personal numbers, then read your personal number as well as the variation. For example, if one of your personal numbers is a 37 or 1, and you are temporarily under a 28 or 1, read both numbers. ONE: THE MAJOR ARCANA. 1 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are independent! You dislike restraint of any kind and need to feel free from all encumbrances, so that your strong individuality may be expressed. You are here to build your own unique personality, which you can do only by exercising your will. As a result, you become a dominant force in any group to which you belong. Recognizing that you are a natural leader, other people will look to you for guidance and strength, so you will probably be at the head of your organization, as a business executive, supervisor or club president. You need to be first and best at whatever you do. Since you have a pioneering instinct, you are usually first, and because you have the courage to assert yourself, you are often the best. You will be a loner in some respects, because your assertiveness tends to alienate all but emotionally secure or dependent types. You will learn to make your own decisions and stand by them, regardless of what others think. Your leadership qualities set you apart and make you acutely aware of the “weight of those splendid chains;” this is the responsibility borne by those in charge. You will meet many new and different kinds of people in your