ability to master speech and foreign languages to aid you in communication. You must use your good judgment and not allow yourself to be swayed by others. Many friends will help you, and socially and in business you will succeed. With persistence you will be victorious, and the pleasures you have sought will be yours. If you are a negative 32 or 5 you allow a haughty, proud nature to turn would-be friends into enemies who are eventually victorious over you. Your sense of superiority irritates others. This usually happens when you have attained a position of authority and feel guilty because you have not lived up to your potential. The rewards this number has to offer are delayed until you have learned the proper use of your energies. You have a charming personality, which gives you confidence. Your dominant qualities make you a leader and take you into positions of authority. You are attracted to government work and could become a leader in government policy and law making. You have a great sense of personal power and desire to see justice done in your life work. The laurels of victory are yours if you remain untainted by ego. You will gain satisfaction only if you know how closely allied you are to the Source which sent the power through you. Self-confidence is an asset in your career, especially if this is your Outer Personality or Life Lesson Number. 32/5 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Good news, humor, rewards, victory. You are experiencing a very favorable period in which you may receive good news. You reach the high goals for which you have been striving, and the recognition and honor that goes with them are now yours. You can enjoy the pleasures earned from your industrial efforts. Difficult situations are overcome and disputes are settled, and you come out on top. Settlements are made in your favor. Friends are very helpful during this period, and you can rely upon them for whatever you need, socially or in business. Your persuasive talents are pronounced, and you can easily sway others to your way of thinking. The messages you bring now can be extremely effective in counseling others or in just plain good advice. Do not allow pride in your accomplishments to make you overbearing, thus alienating potential and existing friends. Your pride can overturn all the good; then enemies gain the upper hand. This can cause delays in obtaining your goals. Develop a spiritual philosophy based on the awareness that your present power has come from the Source and is only working through you. Enjoy the satisfaction of knowing you were able to open yourself as a channel for that source to work through, but don’t mistake yourself as the source of power. This realization brings greater joy and satisfaction than the mistaken idea of the self as controller. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Six of Wands. A horseman crowned with laurel and bearing a laurel wreath on his wand is riding horseback triumphantly, while footmen with wands walk by his side. This is a typical picture of victory. The inner meaning is mastery over the animal nature, and controlled spiritual energy. He is a warrior for right, duty and responsibility. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Second decan Leo. This is a fortunate area of the zodiac, very progressive and expansive. It is a sort of peak period in the solar year. You have a religious or philosophical outlook, and you respect the conventions of the culture in which you live. You may be tempted to speculate in the stock market or gamble in other ways; if done without greed, these activities could turn out very well. You may experience vivid dreams, which you should make note of, for they could very well become a way to receive cosmic guidance. 33/6 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: 33 is the third master number. It is considered an upper octave of Venus, a love vibration raised to the highest level—compassion. It is called the Christ vibration because the title Savior reduces to 33. If lived to its ideal, this number will not be lowered to its base number 6; but if the individual cannot meet the standard it may be lived as a 6 vibration. It requires self-sacrifice and sometimes martyrdom. You are a teacher of teachers. You are required to spread your light and you must be willing to sacrifice for others or for your ideals. You are responsible for some special task; you have accepted this mission with conviction and an unfaltering steadfastness. With your courage and tireless energy, you inspire others to follow your leadership. You show bravery in difficult situations and maintain your position regardless of consequences. You accept the burdens placed upon you with patience and forbearance, without expectation of reward or even appreciation. You may experience a crucifixion in emotions. You are honest, self-disciplined, discriminating and law-abiding. You are also extremely versatile, creative, resourceful and imaginative. You appreciate art and beauty. Crowds disturb you; therefore, you prefer the country where you can get away from noise and turmoil. If you are not living up to the high potential of the 33, you may carry on as a 6, in which case domestic considerations take precedence. If you are a negative 33/6, you are emotionally unstable and will sacrifice yourself for any cause, even though it be unworthy. You become a doormat for others. You are anxious, fearful and indecisive; your false bravado immediately crumbles when you are aggressively attacked. Much responsibility comes into your life for which you get no appreciation. You are incarnated for a special purpose and may be unhappy or frustrated if your particular mission is not found. You are a reformer and have a strong desire to make the world a better place in which to live. 33/6 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Responsibility, self-sacrifice, courage. You have entered a period in which you should maintain faith in your inner abilities. You have been given the opportunity to use your energies to help others alleviate their problems. They will seek you out and ask for assistance. You must use discrimination in selecting those tasks which require your energy. Compassion for others may be given freely; however, sacrifice for its own sake is self-defeating and wasteful if not applied to the most urgent causes. Responsibilities will require your attention. Your home or people in the family may need your assistance, and older people might seek your shoulder to cry on. Accept your responsibilities with a loving heart and have faith and courage in the good service you are performing. The energy and strength you need will be available. Adhere to your principles in the face of all opposition, and the law of karma, as always, will repay in equal measure. Special situations will open your eyes and allow you to see into yourself and perhaps present a purpose for your existence, a clue as to what direction your life should take. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Seven of Wands. Six wands are already planted, which means that six senses (the sixth being intuition) are developed; and the seventh, the ability to leave the body at will, is being planted, or developed. The figure represents a person who is willing to work hard without thought of self, for he is dressed simply and works on a barren hilltop. He cares little for the luxuries of the world; he is interested only in higher development. Self-sacrifice and determination to give service to others are his goals. Sometimes this is a martyr’s card. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Third decan Leo. There is the power of the world beater in this area of the zodiac, but the problem is best expressed in the old proverb: “He who would conquer the world must first conquer himself.” The fiery power of this decan (the total power of the fire trinity) may have enough impetus to propel you to extremes. You need to develop steady but progressive attitudes in making your way in the world. You have a strong pioneer spirit and innate leadership qualities. You are tireless and can inspire others to work with you for worthwhile goals. 34/7 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: This number rules orderly growth and development. It is connected with the hidden mysteries of life. You can integrate the material, mental and spiritual worlds and bring about a systematic approach to your evolution. You are practical and conventional, seldom overstepping the bounds of formal behavior. You stick to the facts as you see them. You are trustworthy, honest and patient, with a keen intelligence and discriminating mind. People can depend on you for straight from the shoulder answers to their questions and sound advice for solving their problems. Your wisdom makes you a person who is much sought after. You are philosophical and introspective, with strongly religious leanings. These inclinations to the spiritual aspects of life, coupled with an open mind, make you very intuitive. Your mind travels freely without obstruction, and you dislike any restrictive discipline. Journeys will carry you to many places during your lifetime. You will experience all modes of travel, but flying is probably preferred. Since you are articulate, lecturing and writing are good outlets. As expressive as you are, you have learned to be discreet and you can be trusted in all things. You have a determined approach to life, and seek your goals with a hopeful, expectant attitude. You embrace patience because you understand that progress takes time. If you are a negative 34 or 7, you are impatient, impulsive and reckless. You are selfish and not above using your keen mind to outwit an opponent. At times you may resort to violence to attain your goals. 34/7 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Haste, messages, settlements. Pursuits are approaching completion, and your rewards are in direct ratio to the efforts expended. Stagnant conditions are stirred up, and final settlements are made. This is an active, hopeful period in which you rapidly advance toward your goals. You may receive communications of all kinds, and these messages propel you onward. Your messages are dashed off in return. Romance is emphasized now, and messages of love fill the air. A negative reaction brings about disputes, legal difficulties and delays. Business and love relationships can stagnate. Quarrels and domestic problems arise, sometimes because of jealousy or rash behavior. It requires extra effort on your part to bring about a settlement. Travel, perhaps by air, is very likely in order to bring affairs to a successful conclusion. This period sets the wheels in motion. Your affairs are obviously progressing, and you can see that time brings all things to their designated completion. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Eight of Wands. Eight live forces move swiftly through the air, unobstructed over open country. All follow the same direction, pointing east toward the light, and aim toward the earth and water. The lower wand is actually touching earth and water to show the blending of the three parts of mind and the four elements. It depicts the integration of the above with the below. The significance of this key is orderly growth, with much cosmic help. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: First decan Sagittarius. You love outdoor exercise, walking, swimming, horseback riding and most games and sports. You also have a high regard for the spiritual side of life and believe that nature has a lot to offer. You have a hopeful and enthusiastic outlook on life, and you believe in right and justice. You are clever, quick-witted and humorous, while possessing a level-headed practicality that keeps you in balance with the times. Wisdom is one of your virtues. You are frank in speech, often blunt, but people know where you stand, which is admirable. You like to aim your arrow toward the stars and gain results quickly. 35/8 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: This is called the inheritance 8 because its bearer usually inherits money, power or position, and sometimes all three. You have an individualistic, forceful mind, a tremendous vitality and a sense of what the public needs and how to supply it; therefore, you make a good executive, business person, teacher or researcher. You work and play hard because you enjoy strenuous activity. You have a great deal of personal charm and are attractive to both sexes. You have many interests and could succeed in any number of professions. You are friendly, helpful and considerate. Emotional balance is important for you. You need stability to control your dynamic energy and achieve success. Travel is one outlet for your tremendous vitality because it satisfies your need for freedom and action. You may meet opposition during your lifetime; however, you are prepared. Inner strength and power and a healthy body give you the tools to defend your position. Through dedication and consistent force, you are eventually victorious. The negative 35 or 8 produces doubt, unreasonableness and unbending judgments. You become self-indulgent and undisciplined, which brings on weakness, ill-health and many bitter emotional experiences. However, with your vision and foresight, you have the opportunity to be a leader, who is able to supply both mind and body. 35/8 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Preparedness, strength, inheritance, recognition, business. This is a period when almost anything can happen; you should be prepared for whatever comes. The demand is toward more responsibility and discipline; you will need to use your stored energy source. You may be promoted and therefore have to withstand more pressure and more work. The honors bestowed now reflect past efforts. This is a money vibration, and job advancement usually means an increase in salary. However, inheritances also come under a 35/8, so this is another source of money. The pressures of this period will affect your health only if you work and worry too much. Allow sufficient time for rest, follow careful eating habits and relegate the demands of the material world to their proper place. Your health can improve through the exciting demands placed upon you; you will never feel more alive. So use the tremendous vitality this period has to offer. Get the job done, whatever the job happens to be. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Nine of Wands. Eight firmly planted wands make a fence between the figure and the outer world. The ninth wand is held in readiness for use if necessary. This is a picture of strength and latent power, both physical and spiritual. It implies inherited strength for work well done in the past. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Second decan Sagittarius. A strong independence is inherent in your nature. You are a bit impulsive and forceful. You like to be at the head of things, and you have the executive ability to back up that desire. You must not let overconfidence lead you to take on more responsibility than is comfortable. Keep your nervous energy in check and control your desire for too much expansion. You can usually find your way out of a jam, but it would be better to take the middle road and accept the simple laws of personal discipline. 36/9 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are a determined person who perseveres until all obstacles are overcome. You may be called upon to carry a heavy burden of some kind during your life, but you have the ability to face this sort of circumstance, while proceeding ever onward toward your goal. Energy and common sense are part of your makeup; therefore, you preserve what resources you have. Your dependability, persistence and intensity lead you to a position of power and authority. You have a natural executive ability. You are trustworthy and can inspire and direct others. You see things from a broad viewpoint. Large and important enterprises are exciting, and you are not afraid to tackle them, for you do not fear responsibility. Your strength is expressed in kindness. You are a believer in justice tempered by mercy. Sympathy for others increases your loving nature and blankets your life with good influences which lighten any loads you must carry. Your quick intuition and inspired nature allow you to see into the future. This, combined with your inventive mind, creates the ability to discover. Your discoveries should be directed toward the uplifting of others. By performing service you find the Holy Grail or the Christ within your innermost being where all ideals await manifestation. You are sometimes described as the salt of the earth, and you must be careful that your earthiness does not bring on waste and selfishness and impose additional burdens on you. A negative 36 or 9 is easily upset and has continual ups and downs. 36/9 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Obstacles, intuition, invention, leadership. This vibration may temporarily place some burden on you; however, persevere with relentless determination. Remain intent upon your goal and have confidence that it will soon be reached; all problems will then be solved. Have joy in the prospect of this completion. You are now endowed with great strength, intuition, vision and optimism. This can aid you in working creatively, finding solutions in research and completing projects in progress. If you wisely use these energies, you need not suffer any emotional difficulties. The separations, endings and apparent losses in this vibration are necessary to free you for the new cycle you are about to enter. Problems may have to be settled legally during this time; by projecting optimism and honesty, a favorable outcome is assured. Any losses occurring now involve only those things that you do not need. Upon closer scrutiny, you will find that this is true. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Ten of Wands. This key represents the binding of one’s forces to preserve and protect them. Spiritual forces, if used as a spiritual fence between the individual and the affairs of earth, serve to blind one and lead to an attempt to escape from the discipline of matter before its lessons are learned. Thus it is not advancement but rather represents arrested development. The lesson of this key is to guard against the repression of energy and force and use it instead for invention and upliftment. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Third decan Sagittarius. The ultimate decan of the fire signs sometimes brings emotions to extremes. You are impetuous and need to control your feelings when dealing with others, as they may not understand your personality. You must be careful not to be a plunger, dipping quickly into things without careful thought. You could, however, develop the ability to preserve your assets and become fortunate in speculative ventures. Your compassionate nature can be awakened so that a philosophic and prophetic nature comes to the surface, which could prove to be very beneficial for yourself and others. THREE: THE CUPS. 37/1 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are a mature, reserved individual whose calm exterior belies your desire to rule. You aspire to prominence, to be in a leadership position in which your inherent expansive and emotional nature can be expressed. Your friendly, kind and generous qualities promote goodwill among your followers. A slight militancy emerges into a dedicated defense when you feel the institution of the home and family is under attack either physically or intellectually. Although some 37's or 1’s remain unmarried, they nevertheless value a home as a secure base for future happiness. The life partner you choose will be a great help toward your success, and together you will create peace and pleasant fellowship. Business and religion are equally attractive to you. You are just as able to apply your nurturing and expansive philosophy to investments and international banking affairs as you are to the spiritual problems of others. Travel and overseas projects intrigue you, and you could be attracted to some sort of foreign service as an ambassador or agent. Your talents and devotion bring you the position and emotional security you need. You then share your blessings with others. If you are a negative 37 or 1 you have a calm exterior which conceals a dishonest, perhaps violent nature. You use all forms of trickery to gain your ends. 37/1 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Friendships, partnerships, love, family. During this calm, happy period, a friendship with an influential person can help you to achieve the results you desire. This help may come through your mate or through an existing relationship. You will feel drawn to your family, ready to protect and defend them against any adversity. A slightly militant attitude arises when you feel they are threatened. The love vibration is strong, and if you are looking for a mate, you could very possibly find a suitable candidate. This is a fortunate vibration for making plans with the opposite sex. You may be attracted to philosophy, science and the arts. Religious and spiritual subjects also interest you, and your creative talents find expression in these fields. Business prospers and you benefit financially. Pursuits during this time may require travel, possibly over long distances. TAROT SYMBOLISM: King of Cups. The King carries both the scepter of power and the upright cup of controlled emotion. His throne, floating on water, represents the idea that his subconscious sustains him. The leaping fish on one side and the fish on the chain around his neck show his involvement in spiritual matters. The ship depicts his involvement in the world of commerce. He is the lord of wisdom and commerce because of his wise use of emotions. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: First decan Cancer. This decan is ruled by the Moon. You are mild, reserved and home-loving. The life partner you choose will be a great help toward your success. You aspire to prominence and could be attracted to some position in foreign service, such as ambassador or agent. Travel interests you. Friendships, love and partnerships are part of your lifestyle. 38/11 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: This is a powerful master number both spiritually and materially, as this vibration carries the gift of vision. You have achieved a perfect blend of the conscious and subconscious, which grants you a rapport with spiritual things. You are poetic and imaginative and can see things that are hidden from most other people. Through dreams and visions, you see the goals you desire. You can act upon them and bring them into reality. You have an intense, powerful spirituality, with the visionary qualities of an avatar. The security and material advantages of the world are yours. Love, success and a happy marriage blend to create the harmony you so desire, thus allotting you the leisure time in which to further pursue and develop your dreams and psychic faculties. You are a good parent dedicated to your home and family. You receive much joy from them, and you take pride in their accomplishments and energetically back them in all their endeavors. Through your thoughtful interest, you become an influence in the lives of others. People are affected not so much by what you say as by the example you set. Your life is a pattern they wish to emulate. Abuse of these beautiful energies through the extravagant use of your material wealth causes problems. Deception can degenerate into immorality, at which point discord disrupts the harmony of the home and business world. You know that true happiness comes from service to others. Material donations are not enough; you have to develop the gifts of the spirit as well. You should engage in charity work or contribute to and participate in educational programs. 38/11 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Love, marriage, dreams, visions, rewards. This is a master number period which demands a great deal from you but promises even greater rewards. Your cup runs over. Many advantages come your way, and your fondest desires can now be fulfilled. People in high positions not only offer you assistance but may bestow some sort of recognition upon you. If romance has been lacking, this vibration should very nicely fill that void. The love you encounter now is deep and abiding and can develop into marriage. Existing relationships are enhanced and family members are drawn closer. Your dreams bring messages from your subconscious. You are tuned in to secret areas of your being that are usually closed off. A powerful spiritual force is present, moving in your life to awaken a deeper part of you. This is a time to give not only of your material wealth, but also of your time, talents and compassion, the gifts that have the only true lasting value. Metaphysical disciplines should be learned and practiced now, so that you can adequately contact your higher sources. So much of value will be found that the material benefits of this lucrative period will wane beside the glitter of the gifts of the soul. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Queen of Cups. The Queen holds the ornate cup of vision and sees in it the events in the sphere of the zodiac; therefore, the cup portrays the divine gift of reflective clairvoyance. She wears a red and blue robe that blends the conscious and subconscious minds. The cherubs on the throne represent the guardianship of the divine beings who protect and guide her. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Second decan Cancer. Scorpio and Pluto are underlying influences in the second decan of Cancer. You are proud, reserved and introspective. Your perception makes you a visionary, and you tend toward spirituality. The 3, the number of Jupiter, and the 8, the number of Saturn, act in combination as if the planets were conjunct; this aspect is found in the charts of holy leaders and sages. 39/3 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You have selected a life of service to others. You offer affection, love and sympathy in order to help make the world a better place in which to live. You are a crusader who wants to feel that the world has benefited because of your sojourn in it. You are idealistic and philosophical. You desire justice and you will make a vigorous stand for your beliefs. No obstacle can deter you from finishing a project once you have begun. A gentle poetic nature makes you a romantic. You dream beautiful unhurried dreams that inspire you to enlarge the scope of your life. Your imagination dovetails nicely with a keen intellect; together they achieve an expansiveness that inspires others. You will live a long and healthy life, in peace and contentment, surrounded by friends and loved ones. The love you give is returned abundantly, which fills your cup even fuller, until the love must spill over into the lives of those who are in need. You exemplify the saying: “Love wasn’t put in your heart to stay, Love isn’t love until you give it away.” Each time you give you are rewarded ten-fold; thus your life is ever enriched. You will communicate this love to all you contact. If you are a negative 39 or 3, you live a sensual life, indulging your every need. You are lazy and sometimes insensitive to the suffering of others. 39/3 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Love, propositions, vacations. Thoughts of love dominate this period. You feel warm and friendly, and you desire to share these feelings with others; therefore you draw people to you. Friendships develop, one of which may deepen into a bond of love. Messages and invitations of various kinds are possible. People seek you out, wishing to join you in a goodwill project. You may be offered a partnership or proposition. This is a leisure time. Your unhurried attitude and general good feeling may prompt you to take a vacation or get away to a quiet spot that matches your contemplative mood. Faraway places lure you, and you should heed the call. Relaxation, love and affection are the goals of this romantic period. A negative reaction brings contracts and propositions that should be looked into. There can be fraud and deceit. Any delays here are for the best. Do something good for someone else now. Every effort on your part will be fully rewarded under this delightful vibration. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Knight of Cups. Both Knight and horse are gentle and unhurried. The Knight approaches calmly with a cup of affection held out as an offering to humanity. His robe is decorated with the divine fish symbol. The stream, running serenely through the valley, depicts the Knight’s calm emotional attitude. The entire picture is one of peace and contentment. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Summer (Cancer, Leo, Virgo). Love dominates this period. Summer is a warm time of year when leisure or vacations promote affection and love. Cancer imbues you with a sympathetic and loving nature; Leo bestows powers of leadership and high goals; and Virgo demands service to the world. All these qualities combine to create an idealistic crusader. 40/4 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are an honorable and confident individual. You have developed an orderly lifestyle. You are methodical and careful with money and know how to invest wisely. You believe in a square deal, and you want the same in return. These talents have ensured your material well-being. Through research and study you build firm foundations for your projects. As a result you are usually successful in business. Mathematical talents lead to a gift for statistical analysis. You have learned to deal wisely with people and are considerate of their needs. Your quiet, receptive nature is influenced by the feelings of those around you. Your studiousness and meditative nature find a natural channel in the study of literature. You are a peacemaker and you handle emotions well. Love and passion have evolved into love and compassion for others. You are sure of the eternal life. Since you have the God symbol, 0, backing the 4 in 40, protection is assured. Inner guidance is always available. If you are a negative 40 or 4, you see only difficulties and obstacles in your life. This creates confusion and disorder. You squander your money chasing illusive goals and build your castle upon sand. If you maintain an orderly and secure existence, you will create a sound base from which to draw the strength to pursue realistic goals. Then you leave lasting values and substance