in good taste. Flattery and deception have absolutely no place in your personality; truth and fairness rule your conduct. You are faithful and trustworthy, as you value your integrity. You are practical and determined in carrying out your plans. Others appreciate your sound business advice. Once you give your affection, you are a devoted partner and mate, supportive in every way. As a negative 66 or 3, you may refuse to accept responsibility because you fear failure. You end up very dependent on others, and even worse, you allow your vast talents to lie fallow and eventually die. 66/3 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Friends, money, travel. This period deals with the material aspects of life and the pleasures and comforts derived from it. Money and possessions are accentuated. You will gain more affluence and prestige in some manner. An influential friend may assist you, or you could receive an inheritance or promotion. The courts and the legal profession could be involved. Educational pursuits will bring wealth and influence. If you have dreamed of a special vacation or trip, you will now have the funds to fulfill that desire. Enough money is available for you to feel opulent and secure. Your mind is very active now. Channel this energy to create a successful business or otherwise bring about tangible results. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Queen of Pentacles. The Queen is dressed in an elegant but conservative costume, which befits her character. Her throne is decorated with symbols of fruitfulness. The goat, symbol of Capricorn, is carved into the arms of the throne. Flowers are in bloom all around her. The hare is also a symbol of fertility and productiveness. Cherubs always indicate the protection of divine beings, who radiate love, peace, happiness and contentment. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Second decan Capricorn. The second decan of Capricorn, (Taurus dominant, Earth and Venus co-ruling), produces not only a practical individual with an eye on financial gains and prestigious positions, but also a determined, loyal and sometimes stubborn individual. It would be hard to imagine anyone with these qualities who would not become successful in whatever endeavor he or she chose. Certainly, with this number, this is the case. 67/4 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are a trustworthy, practical person and a good worker. Material progress and hard work are most important to you. You have matured to the point where you can pursue your goals without depending on others; you accept responsibility for your life and future. Persistence and hard work are your formulae for success and peace of mind. You view the future calmly and methodically plan for it. You handle money well. It is, you feel, a tool for cultivating more resources. You have no anxiety over money because you have faith that it will increase ten-fold if invested wisely. You have a common sense approach to life. You are artistic, creative and inventive. These talents are used to perform a service to others. You produce the products that supply our personal needs and comforts. You nurture and protect the goods of your community so that others may eventually benefit from them. You satisfy your appreciation of beauty and derive emotional satisfaction from this. You win a victory over your world and earn your rest. A negative 67 or 4 is lazy and unproductive. You shirk responsibility and want others to take care of you. You never seem to have enough money or other goods to supply your needs. 67/4 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Work, patience, firmness. Patience is a virtue now. You must be methodical; plan each step you take. Do not depend upon others for help; rather, use your own talents and resources to get ahead. Money is an issue, and budgeting may be necessary. Handle your finances wisely. If you take care of money, it will take care of you. By performing services that supply vital commodities for others, you can be assured of financial success now. Do not allow your routine to become monotonous, but do maintain a steady drive to achieve your goals. Unemployment or difficulty with your job means you should look to your work habits and your attitude toward your position. If you are in the wrong profession, make a change. If you like your work, examine different avenues of approach until you find one that will benefit you and ultimately others. TAROT SYMBOLISM: The Knight of Pentacles. The Knight is pictured riding a work horse. He is contemplating work well done, while at the same time planning a course of action before he starts again. He considers the situation calmly to decide on the wisest moves. His weapon is money; he knows that a wise investment means power on the material plane. His helmet and the bridle of his horse are decorated with the leaves of the grapevine, symbolizing fruitfulness. The field ahead is an open plain, showing cultivation to be done as seasons come and go. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Winter (Capricorn, Aquarius, Pisces). This Knight presides over the winter season, when the fruits of labor have been stored for the winter’s use and security. In this area of the zodiac much of the creative, inventive and artistic work is carried on, so it is with prudence that the Knight has stored the products of the harvest, allowing opportunity for other types of labor to continue. 68/5 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You have a strong attraction for money and luxuries and may become infatuated by them. You enjoy beautiful surroundings and will learn how to earn them, probably through mental rather than physical labor. Through clever planning you achieve your goals. Because clever planning requires an acute mind, you respect learning. You are willing to listen to new ideas and take advice from others. Although somewhat of an introvert, you are a communicator whose purpose is to bring your ideas into the material world. You appear poised and confident, an image you wish to project; within, you are concerned and careful about the decisions you make. You are diligent and cautious as you build for a permanent and comfortable future. Strict attention to planning and organization account for a large share of your success. As a negative 68 or 5 you can be a schemer. You become obsessed with a desire for material possessions. This creates a sense of urgency which obliterates all caution; waste and loss result. 68/5 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Education, planning, travel, new paths. Be careful; during this period an exaggerated materialism may prompt you to spend and react unwisely. Set about to achieve your desires through proper planning and attention to details. Your organizational ability and receptivity to new ideas can be turned to profit. Someone you meet may be a catalyst in your decision to follow one course or another. Be flexible. Accept invitations to socialize and travel; they bring opportunities which aid you in building a sound future. Educational opportunities may arise; accept them for they can open new doors. Communication during this cycle serves to establish priorities and strengthen financial or business dealings. There can be ups and downs and possibly some waste or loss. These phases are intended to eliminate the unnecessary. Use discrimination, plan carefully, and the future is yours. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Page of Pentacles. The Page holds the pentacle lightly, with nonchalance. On the outer surface he appears calm while within there is great care and concern that the right choices are made. The mountain of attainment is in the background. The flowers in the foreground show that the attention now is on the immediate future. The Page is nevertheless aware of the goal to be reached in the distant future. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Third decan Capricorn. This is the Virgo decan which brings in the eye for detail and the fine discriminatory sense that results in good planning and organization. You have poise, confidence and good taste, but you do not believe in gaudy or showy displays. 69/6 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You have all the talents necessary to create a life of material success and emotional contentment. This is the beginning in which some of the vast resources of the natural environment are placed in your hands. You could mold these resources and produce fortune, honor and fame. Your work is not done until you learn and apply the principle of values on the material plane. The wheel of success turns, propelled by your energy and drive. You are attracted to luxury and beauty, and you have the proper attitude to attain them. To express yourself completely, you must be comfortable materially and contented mentally. You enjoy the divine protection which this vibration seems to offer. Once you have attained success on the material plane, in the business or financial world, you share your bounty generously. Contributions are made to the arts and other pursuits that bring pleasure and culture to people. Your generosity is repaid and your riches increase, reaffirming the value you place in the earth s resources. As a negative 69 or 6 you become infatuated with the pursuit of worldly possessions and, once attained, hoard them avariciously. Your greed corrupts you and assures you material comforts but little contentment. 69/6 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Honor, fame, money, contentment. You are showered with honor, fame, money and happiness. The fruits of your labor are in your hands for your consumption. Your past diligent efforts are rewarded. At home, in your profession and in your community you are respected and admired. As your finances increase, you can afford to be generous; you should contribute in some measure to the environment about you. This is such a good vibration that the negative aspect still brings material comforts and financial gains; however, the inner contentment felt with the positive side of 69 or 6 is lacking. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Ace of Pentacles. The Hand of God is holding the pentacle as an offering to those who will learn to grasp its meaning. It seems to suggest that all may partake of material goods and reach the mountain of attainment after recognition that the universal consciousness is offered to all who seek it. The lilies in the foreground represent purified desires. The roses represent the energetic drive behind the desires of the flesh. The twin mountains of attainment, seen through the arch of roses, indicate that the goal is in sight, although still in the distant future. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: The element earth (Taurus, Virgo, Capricorn). Since the aces rule the elements, the Ace of earth bestows the material wealth and security which is so greatly needed and desired during the life sojourn. Fortune, honor and fame are the goals of earthly consciousness. Material and mental contentment and divine protection seem to completely express what we most strive to attain. 70/7 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: This is considered a fortunate vibration because it offers business opportunities. You are thoughtful, prudent, ambitious and diplomatic. You are well liked in your business and social life. You believe in being fair in all your dealings and are probably the only 7 that should attempt a partnership. The 0 gives divine protection. Your creativity has commercial value. You devise ingenious methods to solve problems and promote products. You also know how to get the most out of your money. Changing situations will continually confront you; at all times, be ready to handle these circumstances and bring about harmonious solutions. You are aware of opposing forces and have intuitive understanding of other people’s emotions. While skillfully controlling your own feelings you bring about peaceful and satisfactory settlements. You are thrifty and practical. Your poise, self-confidence, and managerial ability should earn you an executive position. You may do a great deal of traveling for business, or, at the very least, be actively involved in communication. Messages and exchanges are the crux of your work. Your perseverance and endurance prevail, and you become successful. Be sure to balance your personality by allowing equal time for work and play. As a negative 70 or 7, you live a life of pretense. You cannot handle more than one situation at a time, especially if they are conflicting. You are moody; your life reflects your instability by its many ups and downs. 70/7 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Partnership, travel, business. This is a period of business activity. You may be offered a partnership that will be financially profitable in the long run. If both parties deal with fairness and integrity, the union will have cosmic protection. Creative ideas emerge to offer unique ways to solve difficulties or promote products. This will enhance your business. Remain alert to changing conditions around you. Fluctuating trends need to be considered. Messages and communications regarding business abound. Travel for business purposes may be necessary. You can settle disputes or difficulties amicably because you have insight into the opposing forces at work. Keep your imagination under control, and don’t envision problems where there are none. If you allow imaginary troubles to block the positive flow here, you will lose out financially and professionally. Your health may then suffer. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Two of Pentacles. The person pictured is a clever juggler. His material is money. The horizontal 8, the cosmic lemniscate, means infinity. Here it signifies a desire for balanced and continuous activity rather than struggle and strain in attaining ambitions. This is an ongoing process. The ships in the background on the crests of the waves seem to be skillfully piloted, denoting prosperous ventures or success in commerce. The figure’s outer garment is made of leather which shows a desire for lasting qualities, dominance and good use of the animal and lower kingdoms. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: First decan Capricorn. This decan bestows ambition and diplomacy, with plenty of perseverance and endurance. You handle management positions with ease and will eventually work your way into executive positions. Because you are confident, thrifty and practical you do well in leadership roles. 71/8 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: This is a number of constructive material accomplishments. You are dynamic, determined and forceful. With your persistence you finish whatever you decide to do. You work within the accepted norm, learn your trade, and become skilled in your craft. You do not allow dogma or frivolity to distract you. Although disciplined, sensible and aggressive, you sometimes attempt the impossible; however, you realize your limitations and overcome them through sheer hard work. You are dependable, a rock of Gibraltar, inspiring others with your stability. You must remember to take time off for vacations, rest and recreation, to prevent tension from building up, which would be the case if you insist on constantly applying your energy to work alone. Think what the word recreation means... to re-create. You need leisure time to recharge and tap your creative sources. Exercising outdoors and communing with nature have healing effects on you. You are affectionate and sympathetic and instinctively understand the situations which are presented for your solution. Your skills, your desire to acquire wealth and your willingness to progress slowly and steadily to that end assure you financial success. As a negative 71 or 8, you are indifferent to the development of your skills, and therefore you accomplish little. You pay the price however, because it will all catch up with you. 71/8 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Opportunity, advancement, gain. Apply yourself diligently and develop your skills, and you will obtain employment which will ensure your financial security. This can only be obtained through hard work, so use this period for professional development. Be dependable, steady and reliable. Those in authority will be impressed by your cleverness, skill and persistence. Business contracts and job promotions can result. Think big, expand your horizons, allow your creative potential a chance to show what it can do. You are on your way to the top. As you climb, be sure to take time to help those along the way who may not be operating under the powerful influence you are. The honor and recognition bestowed upon you now will increase your bank account as well. If you are a negative 71 or 8, you allow the opportunity for professional development to pass. As a result of your laziness, opportunities will be lost forever. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Three of Pentacles. A laborer is shown working on a cathedral, symbolizing that one should work to improve the temple or the person as a whole. The laborer earns success and rewards for good and faithful work. He pays little attention to the two figures seeking to distract him either through dogma or frivolity. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Second decan Capricorn. This area of the zodiac gives a desire to acquire worldly goods. You are willing to progress slowly and steadily towards that goal. You go about your work quietly, but steadily, to attain the heights you have set for yourself. Real estate, agriculture, or mining would be suitable professions for you. 72/9 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You seek satisfaction through directing mundane affairs and accumulating earthly power. You are keenly analytical and see things in terms of material advantage. This is one of the most practical vibrations for handling material matters skillfully and constructively. You want to amass a fortune, and you have the practical ability, ambition and conviction to do so. The urge here is to build on a large scale and make every penny count. You cannot stand loss through carelessness or wastefulness. You are generous and merciful but have the tenacity to hold onto money and to accumulate the material goods you desire. You are cautious lest the goal you have set for yourself be interfered with; at the same time, your diligent efforts provide services for others. You have a strong character. Your standards are high, and you possess an innate stability; a gift of balanced and logical thinking, through which you achieve harmony and happiness. Through generosity you overcome your fear of poverty. You want your life to be one of usefulness and constructive accomplishments. Then others look to you as a model of practical earthly success. As a negative 72 or 9, you can be selfish, clinging to your possessions out of fear that someone may take them from you. Your miserliness shuts you into a lonely and desolate existence where your wealth offers little pleasure because you spend every moment guarding it. 72/9 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Increase, wealth, satisfaction. Your attention is turned toward material matters. By keenly analyzing your financial condition, you can amass a fortune. You need to build major enterprises with an eye toward every detail and a hand on the purse strings. Be persevering; let nothing deter you from your goal, a goal that is practical and useful to others. If you suffer setbacks or losses, examine your motives. Material achievement to satisfy your own need for security and allay your fear of poverty can bring failure. If you strive for success through the sustained effort and skillful execution of your talents and organizational abilities, you will achieve the material success which you seek. You can then rest upon your earned laurels. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Four of Pentacles. The figure is shown very much closed up within himself. Every extremity is bound by material value; his attitude is that of one who is grasping and holding on. Skillful handling of money is shown by the perfectly balanced pentacle on top of the unadorned crown on his head. He has little regard for personal adornment, as shown by the carelessly laced shoes and the ragged cloak or shawl thrown about his shoulders and waist. The buildings behind him show much past material accomplishment, yet he is still clinging to his material values, wanting to accumulate and build more. The lesson here is that earthly riches do nothing for the inner soul, for the figure looks poor in spite of his many possessions. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Third decan Capricorn. This area of the zodiac produces a practical, ambitious person who is adaptable and discriminating. You want your life to be one of usefulness and constructive accomplishments. You see things in terms of how they will fit into your financial scheme of advancement. By learning to share the abundance you receive from life, you will overcome any fear of poverty. 73/1 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: The keyword here is wisdom—the wisdom to acquire harmony within, to grasp the inner light, to know that to work for material reward alone brings impoverishment, while work for the deed itself brings spiritual fulfillment. You are well aware that you would have to endure the misery and burdens of the world if you took an avaricious approach to life and denied the spiritual light within. You have a fine flow of energy, enduring stamina and the ability to self-start and recharge yourself. Because fear is not part of your language, your self-confidence is superb and serves as an inspiration to others. You are strong-willed, affectionate and patient. Your good business sense and financial ability will bring you blessings. A powerful combination of factors operate to give you a personality that can sometimes produce miracles. You should always use your abilities with honesty, idealism and integrity. You can become a power for good in the world and make it a better place in which to live. If you are a negative 73 or 1, you are obstinate, self-willed, and slow to develop. Your wisdom is attained only through physical, material and financial hardships in which you must choose between material pursuits and spiritual riches. When you look to the light within, a change in consciousness takes place, and the material aspects of life flow easily. 73/1 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Work, meditation, values. Be aware that a preoccupation with the purely material side of life can bring only disappointment. Work and personal endeavors are emphasized here, however, you should pursue them with a delight in the accomplishment itself and not out of a need for the material rewards. Indulging yourself out of a subconscious need for self-importance can bring temporary gains that will ultimately end in misfortune. The losses that can occur during this cycle serve only to place your purposes and aims in proper perspective. The transient nature of the material world should encourage you to look for deeper values. You should obtain some books on philosophy, spend time in meditation or sign up for a course in some metaphysical discipline which will expose you to other ways to deal with the circumstances in your life. The positive result of this cycle is wisdom. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Five of Pentacles. The two figures in the picture represent physical and mental poverty. They serve as a warning to seek the light within, which is indicated by the lighted window. The card is meant to show that inner riches far outshine any material fortunes. The message here is: turn to your inner powers for guidance and avoid the poverty of consciousness to be found if attention is on the outer world alone. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: First decan Taurus. This area of the zodiac is noted for its strong will and great endurance. You have good business and financial abilities. You are fond of ease, good food and the luxuries of life. Artistic talent may be present in the form of singing or other creative abilities. 74/11 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: This is a master number vibration. It requires more than most number vibrations, but, as a result, it returns more. The most important element in this vibration is the balancing of debts, both present and karmic. You feel a need and desire to set things right in your life, in your community and in the world, as far as your influence and responsibility can take you. You are idealistic, with a firm faith that you can make your dreams come true. You balance charity with justice, willingly sharing your material prosperity with others out of concern and a desire to balance the scales. In adjusting your values, you expiate karmic debts through positive action. It is your job to control and maintain the economic factors that keep our society alive and functioning. Your scientific and social inclinations could lead you into chemistry, medicine or professions connected with food and hygiene. Whatever you choose, you need to maintain a fine emotional balance so that your moods will not fluctuate from ecstasy to gloom. You are popular with the opposite sex because of your grace, charm, self-confidence and independence. You have a keen sense of your own worth. You can direct group activities and inspire confidence because you always give a fair deal. When you keep your many talents balanced, material success is assured. Then you must become the philanthropist, sharing your prosperity and influence with the needy of the world. Only in this manner will your worldly attainment possess any real value. If you are a negative 74 or 11, you can be unscrupulous in the pursuit of financial success and security. You need money in proportion to your insecurities, and you can become a miser, drawing jealousy and resentment upon yourself by your actions. 74/11 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Gifts, inheritances, balance, sharing. This is a master number vibration. You are given more opportunity for achievement, and you will reap greater rewards if you fulfill the extra demand. This is a karmic period that requires balancing and sharing. This implies that there has been an imbalance prior to this that must be atoned for and settled. The resulting rewards, be they material or spiritual, must be shared with others. You will attract others who will be inspired by your charm and self-confidence. You can perform effectively in group activities. You have the ambition to pursue your goals; great rewards come from the expression of your talents. Material prosperity is now bestowed on you. You may receive gifts from an admirer, honor from your peers, or perhaps an inheritance. Remember, the lesson now is sharing. A negative use of 74 or 11 brings undesirable friendships and jealousy. You accrue debts and suffer losses. Your unscrupulous methods bring only sorrow. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Six of Pentacles. The central figure holding the scales is the benefactor, as indicated by the master number and the area of the zodiac’s relationship. The key pictures the condition when values are learned and the material substances of life are shared. The other figures depict the opposite condition, when the positive side is neglected and the negative condition (objects of charity) results from carelessness. You can choose to create the positive or the negative in your own future. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Second decan Taurus. This decan includes the scientific influence of the Virgo vibration. You have a discriminating and critical mind. You could be a career analyst or follow a line in the social services, or choose chemistry as related to health matters, such as hygiene, food or diets. You could also be a sympathetic nurse or doctor. You could develop methods of preserving and handling foods for market. You are popular with the opposite sex because of your grace, ability and idealism. 75/3 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: This vibration brings growth if you remain firm and independent. Much depends upon your persistence and effort. You have potential, but attainment calls for hard and steady work, which inwardly you know is necessary. You know that it takes time for your efforts to bear fruit, that you must be calm and patient while waiting, and you must unceasingly apply yourself to the task at hand. Under this number you will really reap what you have sown. Everything from prizefighters to editors, from dramatic actors to musicians, is covered under this number. All, however, had to maintain persistent effort to achieve their fame and position. You have what it takes to become successful: fortitude and discipline. Your practical nature is coupled with ambition. You get along well with your contemporaries. You could become interested in metaphysics or philosophy but you would keep everything on a practical basis. You want to see concrete proof before you accept controversial concepts. You are serious about life, sober and sensible. With both feet firmly on the ground, you accomplish your goals. Opportunities for more responsible positions come to you, and you accept the challenges with courage. You reach a higher status in life than was present at your birth through your determination and stamina. With all the material success you attain, you still realize the need for the investigation and development of your spiritual side. A negative 75 or 3 worries over money or lack of it. You are impatient when rewards are not immediately forthcoming; your anxieties can affect your health and cause you to give up easily. 75/3 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Money, travel, patience, hard work. During this cycle you must exercise patience and perseverance. You have to learn that rewards come only after hard work. A steady application of energy toward a positive goal is necessary. Once these lessons have been learned, the success you strive for is yours. Karma has control here because your success is in direct proportion to the effort you extend. You should unite practicality with ambition. See the situation as it really is and decide if it has any real value. If it does, proceed with determination to see the job accomplished. Always opt for concrete results. Your contemporaries are willing to assist you, so reach out to those on whom you can depend. Positions of authority can open for you; meet them with confidence and a sense of responsibility. Always keep in mind the ethics and morality of your actions. New opportunities may require travel, so be flexible. A negative reaction brings frustration over financial matters. There are delays, and you may feel impatient and restricted. The only solution is a calm acceptance of time as the eternal healer and a resolution to get down to business and work with a positive attitude. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Seven of Pentacles. The young man pictured has attained a considerable show of success through his diligence.