be one of constant change. As soon as a situation seems settled and quiet, a new set of circumstances will arise to replace the old. Constant renewal keeps you on your toes and impresses on you the transitory nature of earthly things. The instability of your material world strengthens the bond between you and the invisible world. Because of this you need a secure home and secure relationships therein, for you realize that these bonds are true and lasting. You are not a leader in the ordinary sense of the word, but you do carry on for others. You take on their problems and bravely bear burdens with little complaint. Your idealism knows no bounds, and you can transform the most desperately lost cause into a worthwhile venture through your profound philosophy and understanding of the real values in life. Your limitless creative powers discover fertile soil where others see only a wasteland. You can take a dying business and, with creative ideas, organized talents and hard work, change it into a financially profitable venture. You can salvage a relationship that seems about to break and cement it more strongly than it was. Transformation is your keyword, whether it be in business, relationships or social causes. Your psychic abilities are marked, and you can see right through people and situations. It is not easy to fool you, and your perceptive analytical powers make you a formidable opponent. If you are a negative 13, you dissipate your creativity in pursuit of transitory desires. Overindulgence in drink, drugs, unsavory relationships and destructive actions can make your life and the lives of those around you a complete disaster. Your bad temper and rash actions hurt others and can tear down those structures that you attempt to build. Stagnation and inertia set in and turn you into a revolutionary. But the change you bring about is destructive rather than regenerative. You are in a state of spiritual amnesia. You above all others have the ability to bring about peaceful changes that will improve the living standards of the world. You can take what most people would throw away, rework it and produce a useful and necessary product. This gives tangible proof of the existence and immortality of the soul, whose presence you have never doubted. 13/4 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Change, release, transformation. The number 13 is associated with suspicion and misconceptions. For an understanding of this, read the 1st paragraph of 13/4 as a personal number. Then turn back here to see how 13/4 relates to you as a temporary vibration. Under a 13 you can expect the changes that will bring an end to conditions that no longer serve a useful purpose in your evolutionary scheme. Any rigid thought patterns must be altered and crystalized ideas must be shattered. Only through the death of present circumstance can you be released; freed to open the door for progress. Old ideas must be swept away to make room for new and better ones. Be prepared to meet fresh ideas, new people and stimulating conditions. A change of plans, a new location and different people open the birth channel for new opportunities. This is a reconstruction period, which can bring great happiness if you make the right decisions. The events that occur may not necessitate physical action on your part, but they will require you to make the proper assessments. Change is the basis of earthly manifestation. Upon the wave of change you can sail to a new fertile land where a fresh lifestyle is possible. Release from the past is followed by a renewal which brings changes that promote growth. This is a time to depart, to travel and to grow. The cyclical force of nature reigns here, as the old is replaced by the new. The king is dead; long live the king. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 13. Death. The keywords corresponding to this card are fish, fish’s mouth, or mouth of the uterus. This symbol suggests reproduction and birth, not necessarily into this world but rather rebirth of the consciousness into higher planes. In the time of Christ, the fish symbol represented those who lived in a Christlike way. The number 13 is sacred as is every multiple of 13. It connotes an initiate or one who is reborn through the mental powers of transmutation. There are twelve disciples, Jesus was the thirteenth; there are twelve zodiacal signs with the Sun at the center. Number 13 is preserved in the measurements of the Great Pyramid. Astrologically, this card is ruled by Scorpio, which governs the reproductive organs, birth, death and transmutation. The skeleton is the figure of Death, which comes to all: king, man, woman and child, without respect for station. He rides astride a well-behaved white horse, a symbol of the purified desires and senses in submission to the cyclical rhythm. However, the brilliantly shining sun between the towers in the distance promises eternal life. The life force does not die, but merely changes form. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Earth (and Scorpio). The expansion (3) of the original life force (1) ultimately produces form (4, earth). And here in number 13, appropriately ruled by Scorpio, we find that Death must be understood, not feared. Of all the zodiacal signs, Scorpio has the power to transform the things of earth, and bring about new life. Other people’s rubbish becomes Scorpio’s fuel. Another important point that is strongly suggested here is that Death belongs only to the earth. 13 has always been feared as the death number by the uninitiated, but 13 reduces to a 4, the number of the earth. The Bible tells us we are the salt of the earth. Salt crystalizes in cubes, and cube vibrates to 13. Our bodies are cubes that contain the immortal spirit, the everlasting life energy. The body dies; the essence goes on. Scorpio transforms the substance and gives it new form and new life. 14/5 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: The ancient symbol for the letter corresponding to the number 14 is a scribe, an individual who copied manuscripts by hand. Books were rare and very costly; therefore the scribe was in a unique position to glean knowledge that was otherwise denied to all but the wealthy and favored. As a result the scribe was exposed to philosophy, religion, science and the arts: all kinds of ideas that created an educated mind. The number 14 has imbued you with a vivid imagination, teeming with ideas, energy and vitality. Narrow rigid thinking confuses you, because your exposure to the greater scheme of existence won’t allow your mind to be fettered. You are willing to consider all possibilities but you won’t accept theory, no matter how plausible, until you have tested it in actual practice. You have to see practical applications in order to verify the theory. You achieve understanding and truth through trial and error. You learn by experience, however, and you are always ready to listen. The sexual principle is active under a 14. You enjoy life’s sensual pleasures and can immerse yourself in fulfilling them. Temper the bodily passions and desires or your health may suffer. Overwork can bring on physical maladies and create a barrier of competition between your business and personal life. If you are cautious, you can be successful in speculation and in handling money. Business dealings can be extremely profitable if you select the proper combinations. Analyze all the contingencies and proceed with caution. With this number your strength will be tested. If you can overcome yourself then there is no limit to your capacity for achieving greatness. You must maintain a balance among the various aspects of your life. You like continual excitement and motion but indulging in one facet of experience to the exclusion or neglect of another will bring you more problems than others would have. You must remain a positive thinker, or you can create an unstable foundation. The number 14 can be a difficult vibration, causing you to live for sensation in such a way that the physical appetites may harm you. Envy, jealousy and divorce are common. A negative 14 has a nervous impulsive nature which propels you into problematical situations. A positive 14 must learn to be more cautious, always on the lookout for the right mixture or perfect set of circumstances that will congeal into a proper blend of intellect and feelings. Once you have achieved this combination of energy, vitality and creativity, plus a superb comprehension gained through experience, you will be supplied with the necessary tools to bring inspired messages to the world. 14/5 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Active sexual principle, pregnancy, social and family obligations, competition, a need to verify. A variety of experiences will occur that urge you to slow down and think about your previous behavior. You may need to modify your lifestyle and control your desires and sexual appetites. The sexual principle is active now and can result in pregnancy. Or the creative act may be channeled to bring about a product of the mind, an invention, painting, sculpture, book or musical composition. Competitive situations may arise. In commercial or political enterprises, money and business dealings can be profitable if you are aware of all the alternatives. Be aware that with number 14 there are risks involving the loss of property or business failure. Social and family obligations could be at the root of peculiar circumstances that will need careful consideration. Through concentration and the mental transference of your thoughts, you can easily influence others now. Your verbal suggestions can sway their decisions which can work to your advantage. You will gain through tact, diplomacy and persuasion. Listen to your dreams and inner promptings. ESP experiences may help you assess your situation and find the means to modify any unacceptable circumstances. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 14. Temperance. The keyword corresponding to this card is sustenance or establishment. You should establish the foundations of your belief system through proof or verification. The keywords verification and wrath show that the desire to find the truth surfaces from within, through wrath (not temper, but strong and stem anger). This process tempers one’s soul, just as steel is tempered. We become balanced by choosing the middle path between the extremes of action. Sagittarius rules key 14. The arrow of concentration of the fiery life force brings about the manifestation of the higher ideals, which leads to elevated states of consciousness. The androgynous angel is a perfect blending of polar opposites, of male and female. It is an angel of the Sun, the life force, as shown by the solar disk on the forehead. The red wings depict the fiery nature aspiring to higher consciousness. The pool and the earth represent the subconscious and conscious minds, on which the angel maintains perfect balance. The mountain peaks symbolize attainment of wisdom and understanding. The crown in glory over them represents the culmination of the great work. This key teaches you to verify your destiny as a manipulator of the life power, the kundalini. This should be verified by actual practice and testing until you feel the presence within. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Mercury (and Sagittarius). The things of the earth (4) must be understood as manifestations of pure energy (1). Unless we can consciously direct our mental energies (Mercury) toward a deeper understanding of this concept (Sagittarius), we cannot possibly hope to develop along the lines of spiritual consciousness. We need accumulated experiences to temper ourselves into something more fitting, and a 14 or 5 vibration supplies the necessary testing situations. Anyone responding to this number will surely be tested and should learn to ask of each experience: “How can I use this?” “What lesson in tempering does this experience teach me?” Strong anger is diluted; tempered by adding another quality, such as forgiveness. The profound development that can result from the proper handling of this vibration produces great wisdom and understanding. 15/6 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You have a great deal of magnetism, plus a talent for obtaining money, gifts and favors from others. But at the same time you work for your possessions and good fortune. You are persevering and strong willed and always get what you go after. You are very conscious of other people’s foibles and weaknesses, and you may tend to take advantage of them. In the process of artfully carrying out your purposes, you may step on some toes. Your attachment to worldly status and possessions is the impetus for your driving ambition. You are a good student because you absorb knowledge easily and retain it. Knowledge thus gained allows you to proceed up the ladder of success with few slips, for you can learn from the mistakes of others. Your moves are calculated. If you are wise you will develop a philosophical attitude toward the material world. Although you pursue material rewards, you realize that worldly attachments and cares are ridiculous and can entrap you in a prison of restraint, limitation and suffering. You see people whose mistaken estimate of their possibilities results in lasting bondage. You pity those who prefer a comfortable lie to an uncomfortable truth, who prefer to believe that this world is all there is and that the individual can do nothing but endure. You see these people as negative 15’s whose obstinate adherence to materialism brings heartache and emotional disturbance, which can upset the home and marriage. They must learn emotional control. Violence and revolution, terrorism and anarchy breed as a result of their negative concepts of what they are and life is. 15 is virtue or vice; there is no middle path. You can attempt to use your knowledge and financial ability for negative purposes, or you can choose to see the paradox of materialism which at death leaves you with nothing. At death the delusion of outward appearance is erased; the grasping scrooge becomes the penniless penitent. Laughter physiologically and psychologically relieves pressure, lightens burdens and lifts the spirits. You should learn the art of laughing in the face of difficulties. Reflect on the wisdom expressed in a hymn to the Sun god Ra: “Thy priests go forth at dawn, they wash their hearts with laughter.” 15/6 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Indecision, bondage, freedom, laughter, discernment. The materialistic side of life is emphasized now. You may receive money and favors from others. Opportunities for progress can come through a radical change in your lifestyle that releases you from present limitations and allows you a freer expression. Long held views may change, and newly found beliefs can set your mind at ease and eradicate old fears. You may have to make decisions and take decisive action. Under a 15, it is vital to decide whether the experiences of this period are limiting you or setting you free. Be careful not to bum the candle at both ends in an attempt to satisfy your personal needs. Don’t chain yourself to things or people who will place you in servitude. You should be cautious about signing contracts or agreements at this time. Don’t allow outward appearance to cause heartaches, trouble in partnerships or ineffective action. Look beneath the surface and see the situation as it really is. Discernment is the keyword here. Learn to laugh at your own and other people’s weaknesses. By lightening the seriousness of your problems, by accepting the frailties of others and by looking beyond the limitations of circumstances, you can bring about peaceful and satisfying solutions. Laughter cleanses the soul and can lead to physical healing through spiritual understanding. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 15. The Devil. Key 15 shows what happens when we fail to use discrimination. The Devil is a misconception of God, as God upside down or opposite. He represents the delusion of judging by outward appearances instead of by inner realities. He also represents religious dogmatism, which is ridiculous to the enlightened person. Therefore the keyword here is mirth. We should learn to laugh in the face of difficulties, for laughter or ridicule is sometimes the most effective defense against evil. Capricorn, ruled by Saturn, overshadows this key. The Saturn center at the base of the spine is where the kundalini force lies coiled, and it is the life work of Capricorn to raise the kundalini, and then teach others. The black background on this card indicates ignorance, lack of light. The inverted pentagram on the Devil’s forehead is the symbol of black magic, inverted power. His torch bums wastefully and gives no light. The humans, chained loosely to the half cube could easily free themselves by refusing to be bound by darkness and imperfect knowledge, or half-truth, as indicated by the half cube. This key means we are God incarnate, but all too often we play the role in an upside down position, as undeveloped people, chained in bondage to appearance. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Venus (and Capricorn). In 15 or 6 we find Mercury (5) working through Mars (1) to produce the basic Venus vibration (6). The Venus awareness of opposites finds fertile ground in key 15, which casts a false image of truth. If you can examine both sides of a situation or see beyond outward appearances, you can escape the bondage of adherence to the purely physical aspects of living. Through Capricorn, the eye of discernment raises you to the highest peak of expression in the full light of day at the apex of the natural horoscope. Capricorn’s natural predilection for prestige in the material world is fulfilled by being elevated as a teacher and example for others to follow. 16/7 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are a magnetic individual. Your forceful personality attracts others. Your talent for writing and speaking aids in the clever expression of your ideas. You are a clearsighted intellectual with the ability to assess circumstances easily and accurately. This can lead to a tendency to speculate which will not always bring you the desired results. Overconfidence can result in material loss. You may experience trials, defeats and the loss of material security. Sudden material and physical upsets are the outward manifestation of emotional discontent. Examine your life and your attitudes. Is your personality dominated by emotions? Have you had disappointments in love because of misplaced affections or illicit love affairs? Have your indulgences, your selfish and unsympathetic nature, brought about this emotional fall? If any of these are true you have allowed the material world to control you. Financial, professional and personal losses dominate your existence, and you experience telepathic invasion through your subconscious. Your desire for freedom and your impatience at restraints of any kind have brought on these many difficulties. Your subconscious is now urging you, through these calamities, to awaken the inner spiritual self, the real you. It is here, under extreme pressures, that a sudden bolt from the blue, an illuminating flash of insight, will lead the way to exoneration and solution. If 16 is your Soul Number, you may be atoning for a promiscuous past when ideals were lost. Now you have to learn truth and faithfulness. If you learn freedom from dependence on the illusory material world, you will be awakened to the truth that lies deep within your soul. This is the splendor of the 16/7. Through silence and meditation you overcome all obstacles. You have the inclination, at this point in evolution, to become a mystic. Here the 16 becomes the 7. And here, any material losses are meaningless, for you have become one with the Oneness. 16/7 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Love affairs, health, accidents, awakenings. The unforeseen and sudden events of this period are intended to overthrow existing conditions, especially in a material sense. Erroneous ideas and habits must be altered, and for some this has to be done in a forceful manner. There can be losses and setbacks in business and financial affairs. This is not the time to take speculative risks. You may lose a desired position or suffer a scandal in your present position. Selfish ambitions fall under a 16, and bankruptcy may result. In extreme cases imprisonment is possible. Deception and trouble in matters of the heart are likely. The love you give can be misplaced, and disappointments may result. Separation from close partners and trouble in relationships come from your pride and emotions. The result is personal isolation. Do not overwork now. An over-expenditure of energy will take its toll on your health. The energy operating during this cycle is intense; therefore, do not take risks. Be careful of accidents and conflicts with others. Number 16 is not as bad as it seems at first. You can use the additional energy spurt during this period to plan wisely for the future. You are in touch with your intuition. If you listen to the generous advice of your inner self you can formulate plans to be implemented in the next cycle. Illuminating insights may reveal the insubstantial nature of the selfish materialistic approach and spark your creative talents to work toward a future goal which will inevitably bring good fortune. Bright prospects may arise suddenly. The power for loss is great under a 16, but so, too, is the potential for financial gain, fame and prosperity. All the material rewards are yours as long as you are not obsessed with ownership. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 16. The Tower. Mars rules this card in which the keyword is awakening. This comes as a clear flash of understanding, a bolt from the blue bringing awareness of the true nature of the self. What inspires fear in the mind of the ignorant liberates the enlightened, just as electricity frightens the primitive but is used constructively by the knowledgeable. A flash of lightning is another symbol of the electrical serpent force, or the kundalini, the Mars force in the body. The Tower, also called the Lightning-struck Tower, is the house of God, or the human body. It was also referred to as the Tower of Babel (Babble means confusion of understanding.) Lightning strikes the crown or head or place of understanding and knocks the man and woman out of the tower. This analogy depicts erroneous ideas being knocked out of the two parts of mind, conscious and subconscious, by the lightning of true understanding. The 22 yods or tongues of flame represent the 22 letters in this alphabet. These tongues of flame also refer to key 9, where the one yod is the Hermit, representing the response to primal will. When we respond to the primal will, we receive a flash of illumination which bears a message that awakens us to our true source. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Moon (and Mars). Basic desires (1, Mars) must be refined (6, Venus) before they become reality in the subconscious mind (7, Moon); once the subconscious receives the suggestion, the suggestion becomes a reality in the world of thought. It is only a matter of time before the suggestion manifests in the material world. Mars is the driving force within any given mechanism, including the human body. It also rules the head, through Aries. After the kundalini or Mars force within the body is driven up the spine, there, in the head, final illumination must take place. 17/8 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are the researcher, the scientist, the natural detective who investigates the unseen mysteries of life. You desire truth and seek solutions to enigmas. You are intuitive and fond of the occult. You delve into the secret depths of the inner consciousness in pursuit of hidden knowledge. This relationship to the secret forces of life instills in you a quiet strength and an air of mystery. Others see you as a deep individual, as indeed you are. You are an intellectual in the beginning stages of mental unfoldment. Your intelligence and introspection necessitate periods of solitude in which to meditate. Seeds germinate in darkness before they burst into the light of day. Your ideas need the same germination period in which to unfold. After questions, research, meditation and experimentation, your ideas begin to take form. You possess insight and a fine mind. You are very successful in pursuits which require deep concentration and enduring mental application. You deal wisely in the material world and enjoy seeing the tangible results of your mental concepts and efforts. You have hope and faith in the future and courage in the face of difficulties. You are determined to overcome any and all obstacles. Compassion for others and a desire for peace and love among all people is a product of your deep understanding of the essence of life, an understanding which surpasses worldly considerations. Your spiritual love imbues you with good health. If you are a negative 17 or 8 you are stubborn. Doubts bring on faithlessness and create a pessimism so that you can see no promise or light in the world. You have executive and leadership ability that can lead to a distinctive career. Researchers, discoverers, explorers, executives and aviators come under this number. You may travel often by sea or air. Because of your outstanding abilities, you may achieve fame and a name that lives on after you. 17/8 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Good fortune, rewards, travel, meditation, assistance. This is a fortunate vibration, for you will receive all types of assistance. Money, gifts, advancements and promotions are possible, and business and public affairs turn out profitably. Intellectual achievements will be rewarded. You could receive recognition for outstanding leadership. You are the star under number 17. If travel is in the picture, you could take a trip by sea or air. Medical problems will improve and you will enjoy good health. The law of action and reaction operating here proclaims that your positive attitude and buoyant hopes will be rewarded. The help you receive now brings a promise of a brighter day. Hope springs within, and because you are positively expectant, positive things happen. You are determined to overcome any obstacles and you do so. Greater mental vitality and an open channel to the unconscious help you solve any problems. Your intuitive and creative powers are pronounced, and you should spend time in meditation, where ideas that have long lain dormant can now begin to emerge into the light of understanding. Secrets are revealed to you. You must be very truthful with others. You are most persuasive now and your words can have a profound effect. Don’t allow doubts to creep into your mind, bringing on periods of depression and pessimism. Delve beneath the superficial irritants to the deeper person, the true I AM within. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 17. The Star. Fishhook, keyword for the Star, suggests the drawing of ideas from the universal subconscious. The hook relates to the subject selected for research or meditation. Revelation comes through meditation. You must still the conscious mind but keep a line on the subject chosen for meditation. Aquarius rules this key, which brings the age of revelation. The Star key explains the fifth or celestial essence, which is above and beyond the four elements of fire, earth, air and water. The great star has eight points representing rotation. The seven lesser stars refer to the seven bodily centers which are really whorls of motion and vibration. The ibis is a fishing bird, again emphasizing searching and probing. The woman represents the subconscious mind which shows that all secrets are available if you fish in the proper manner. Her left leg, holding her weight, forms a right angle or square, hinting at the number 4, order and reason. Resting on the water, her right foot shows that the mind sustains her. She pours water, her mental powers, on land and sea, indicating the pouring of knowledge over humanity everywhere. The water on land divides into five streams representing five senses. Ask yourself a question and seek the answer with calm expectancy. This is the right attitude for meditation and the proper method for gaining illumination. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Saturn (and Aquarius). 17 has the 7 of receptivity (the Moon) and the 1 of concentration (Mars). Together they equal 8, the Saturn correspondence and the symbol of the kundalini force rising from the Saturn center at the base of the spine. These are necessary attributes for the subconscious mind to use in meditation. The Aquarian influence brings the revelation, which 17/8 represents, and universal consciousness, both of which are the ultimate goals of meditation. 18/9 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are an extremely active person with an unusually vivid imagination. Intense emotions and feelings well up from your subconscious and invade your conscious mind. You can probably recall your dreams in detail. Dreams are the workings of the subconscious mind; through them, you are in touch with the illuminating guidance of your being. You are receptive and intuitive and receive impressions and hunches about people and situations. As a child you may have had nightmares which caused restlessness and troubled sleep. Your subconscious may have presented fears in the form of monsters chasing you in your dreams. It is vital that you take care of your body and health. You need rest, exercise, fresh air and sunlight; you would be wise to spend time in nature, mountain climbing, hiking, swimming, skiing, skating and so forth. Nature has healing powers to which you are attuned. Organizing your life transmits suggestions to your subconscious to organize your self. Your every action and thought affects your body physically; therefore, more than most people, your health depends upon your thoughts and lifestyle. Your intuitive powers are also dependent upon a healthy body. You are a natural healer with a gentle touch. You are tolerant of others and would make a good counselor or advisor. You are loyal to your friends and your beliefs. You have hope and faith in life and believe in justice, integrity and truth. The hidden forces of life are active within you. You are sensitive to their undulating motion, and sometimes your body reflects this sensitivity in the form of nervous habits. If you are a negative