top, don’t forget your friends and those around you. Lend them your strength and assurance, for surely this 8 cycle will show you the absolute necessity of sowing good seeds. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 8. Strength. The keyword for this card is the fang of the serpent. The serpent represents the kundalini, or life force, which, in undeveloped persons lies coiled three and a half times at the base of the spine. This force must be elevated, to transform the individual into a more spiritually-oriented person. All transformations in nature are actually specialized manifestations of this kundalini force. The only two numbers that can be written over and over without ending are 8 and 0. As such they represent divine power. The number 8 represents material power as well. In key 8 we direct this life force through suggestion. The woman is the subconscious mind controlling body functions and directing the amounts of vital force that the body receives. She also receives and acts upon suggestions from the conscious mind. Her dominion over the lion is through gentle and spiritual power rather than by brute force. The roses around the woman and the lion form a chain. Roses, representing desire, must be tended and properly cared for. In this context, a chain of roses is a series of cultivated desires. Any suggestion emanating from a desire sets up a chain reaction in the subconscious that eventually results in manifestation. The cosmic lemniscate (figure-8-shaped curve) over her head gives her dominion in this world. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Saturn (and Leo). Saturn is assigned to the number 8 and Leo has rulership over key 8, Strength. Saturn urges the expression of concrete achievement, and represents those who have the necessary determination and discipline to rise to the top in their chosen field. Leo lifts the spirits of an overly sober saturnian attitude and bestows a sunny and magnanimous acceptance of responsibility, as well as the ability to rule in a regal fashion. Number 8 individuals have the capacity for the top executive positions. They possess enormous reserves of strength, which can be called upon when the pressure is heavy. Many outstanding athletes also have an 8 in their personal expression. 9 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are a humanitarian, a universalist who thinks in abstract terms. Born for service to others, you want to make the world a better place in which to live. Since 9 is the last single digit, it indicates attainment, perfection and completion, the seeds for new beginnings, the foundation for future growth in the next or higher cycle. You have a thirst for spiritual knowledge and an urge for freedom and wisdom that transcends personal needs. You desire to live an ideal life according to your inspirations and aspirations. Through your responsive reaching out to the world, you become a beacon for others. The number 9 is a testing number. The higher you evolve, the more difficulties you may encounter. You should be tolerant of and merciful to others on your path. In this way you will be an example for them, and they will recognize your sympathetic and compassionate nature. People will be drawn to you for your deep and broad understanding. Your thinking is vast, and without limits. Because of your openness, your psychic abilities are well developed, and foresight, premonitions and predictions flow from you with ease. You seem to have a direct line to the mysteries of life. You have very strong emotions and feelings and could evolve a new philosophy for humanity. You are generous and idealistic. For anyone who needs your wisdom and guidance, you are open-handed and beneficent, because you realize that knowledge belongs to those who seek it. Charitable work is close to your heart, and you are likely to be a patron of the arts and sciences. Your associations with other people in your life are intense, but not necessarily enduring. You must learn to let friends go when their needs have been filled, because your destiny is to be a loner, a sort of recluse. You are not meant to sit alone meditating on a mountaintop, but your innate wisdom and understanding separate you from the crowd. You must share your wisdom to enlighten the world, so you cannot be bound by enduring ties that would limit your mobility. Your life cycle includes travel and associations with famous personalities who will be drawn to you by your free spirit and broad compassion. Your friendship encompasses the world. You easily acquire money and independence, so that you are free to pursue your worldly destiny. If you are a negative 9, you are self-serving and concerned with your own needs rather than the needs of others. This self-indulgence precludes belief in a higher source and can result in faithlessness. When crossed you are quick tempered. Your keen mind makes you a formidable enemy. Since 9’s have to live up to a higher standard than the other numbers, the resulting tension can cause nervous troubles. This can produce unhappy relations with others, including your mate. Corinne Heline says in The Sacred Science of Numbers: “The 9 individual has run the gamut of personal experiences, including both the high and the low, the mundane and the spiritual. It is the synthesis of these experiences which produces that sympathy, compassion and rare understanding which is characteristic of the 9.” Using the enhancing qualities of your number 9, you can be the visionary for whom all things are possible. Your faith in life embraces all and looks forward to evolution as the promise of the spirit. 9 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Changes, endings, charity, inspiration. Events take place quickly at this time, with many stops and starts, because you are experiencing a period of change and transition. As Paul Case says in The Tarot, “You must make the final selection between assimilable material and what is rejected as waste.” Eliminating the useless, and separating yourself from past mistakes can be an emotional experience, for we often are reluctant to let go of the obstacles in our lives. If you cannot free yourself from associations and situations that are no longer necessary for your development, then the 9 cycle will do it for you. A vacation or trip would be good therapy at this time, giving you time to think and separate yourself from the emotionalism you might encounter under this vibration. Many of your goals will be realized during this time, and you should attempt to finish all projects that are close to completion. As this is an ending cycle, do not make new commitments. Projects begun under a 9 have little durability. Present friendships can be cemented and made more enduring, and you may receive gifts from friends. This should be a charitable time, in which you think primarily of other people’s welfare. Do something for others in thanks for the blessings you have received in this life. An old friend or lover may enter your life briefly for one last encounter, but don’t expect this sudden renewal to last. Since this is an ending cycle, you may change jobs or residence. Children may leave home for higher education or marriage, or to begin their own lives. If you are separated from the people, situations and locations with which you have lived for a long time, it is because they no longer serve your evolutionary process. Use the creative powers of this vibration to develop your artistic abilities. You will have inspirational ideas that can be used productively in the future in a way that the next cycle’s number will determine. Don’t be caught by your emotions. Hanging on to the past, wallowing in what used to be can only bring discontentment, frustration and depression. Rather, look forward with joy and high expectations to the future, for which the releasing energy of this cycle has prepared you. Use the wisdom provided by the events of this cycle to inspire your actions productively in the future. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 9. The Hermit. The symbol for key 9 is the yod, the tongue of flame, the glyph that makes up every letter in the Hebrew alphabet. It represents the fiery energy, the life force, and the hand, opened rather than closed, of man and woman. In the body we are little serpents, containing a portion of the one Source’s fiery energy. As such, we are the hands of God operating in the physical world. The Hermit is a symbol of ageless wisdom, standing on the mountain of attainment. He has achieved. The snow represents the isolation he endures because his wisdom sets him apart from others. However, as he turns to shine his light on those who follow him, he intimates that our knowledge is empty and meaningless until we turn and give it to others. The Hermit has evaluated, selecting the necessary and discarding the unnecessary elements along his path. He has learned to use the Magician’s wand, which he now leans on, for he knows he can depend upon it for support. He has achieved mastery. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Sun (and Virgo). The Sun is assigned to 9 because it is only after you carefully progress through the previous steps, 1 through 8, that you can attain a position of respect and leadership, as well as a full recognition of your inner potential. The true inner self is expressed under a 9, as you become the humanitarian, the universalist who reaches out to the multitudes to lighten their burdens through your understanding, wisdom and compassion. Virgo’s assignment indicates that careful, thorough analysis has preceded this final position of authority. Any mistakes along the path could have led the aspirant astray; therefore, keen discrimination is necessary at all times. 10/1 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: If you embrace the philosophy of reincarnation, you will recognize that you are an old soul who has lived many lives of both high and low degree and who has learned how transitory the things of the earth are. You have a talent for influencing and bringing people together, and you are a power person who has a special spiritual mission in the world. Your word is power and your presence, peace. Therefore, your mission could be to establish peace and fellowship among the races and peoples of the world. Your clear thinking and comprehension help you to grasp and to use any situation to advantage. Leadership positions are open to you because of your obvious control and mastery. Your productive talents constantly revivify those around you. With a 10, luck, success, honor and material rewards are yours, for you easily attract and acquire those things that others struggle for so desperately. Complete attainment and realization are possible because you are in touch with your super-conscious although you may describe this as a deep inner feeling. You understand other people’s feelings and needs, and you have faith and confidence in yourself. These treasures are brought over from past life experiences, or, if you prefer, they are the capitalization of past experiences in this lifetime. Your wise use of previous experience means that your influence will be wide and pronounced. You take one step at a time and keep your mind on the goals you have set. The gradual turning of the wheel assures your progress, so your plans are likely to succeed. If you are a negative 10, you may be fixed, stubborn and opinionated. You are inclined to overdo and exaggerate your needs and desires. You may not realize your latent abilities until you are spiritually awakened. Once you are awakened, however, your influence knows no limits. Your power for good is phenomenal. 10/1 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Intuition, fortune, luck, a turn for the better. What you have been waiting for may now be yours. The culmination of a series of events brings success and material accomplishment. You could call this cycle a turn for the better, the start of something new. The innovative ideas and fresh beginnings you are experiencing now are really an expression of the law of cause and effect. Events that appear accidental or mere chance result from efforts you have already expended. This is an initiation period in which you may be required to stand alone and make decisions. Base your decisions upon precise and definite facts, then rely upon your intuition, which is based upon reason. Then you will know what to do. You can settle differences with previous enemies because of your clear comprehension of the situation and its problems. Events now reveal your understanding of the circumstances in your life. If you have worked hard and efficiently, you can expect to receive your just reward. Progress, improvement and advancement are yours. You may be awarded a special position you have been vying for, win the lottery, or inherit a large sum of money, which will help you start a new life. Realize that any of these experiences are the product of your own efforts. If failure and loss plague you, then understand that every circumstance in life is the result of the prior use of your energies. Decide now to begin to work and plan wisely, so that you can gain mastery over your future. The wheel of fortune keeps turning, and the next rotation can bring exactly what you want, if you begin now. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 10. The Wheel of Fortune. The symbol corresponding to this card is the closed hand, indicating mental comprehension. To grasp is to own; and to grasp your place in the world is to grasp what and who you really are. Therefore you never suffer material deprivation. The number 10 begins a new cycle, a repetition of the 1. Rotation and cyclicity are the keywords for the Wheel of Fortune. All is in the process of becoming; change is the only constant, so in due time, all things come to pass. The bull, the lion, the eagle and the man represent the four fixed signs of the zodiac: Taurus, Leo, Scorpio (the eagle is a symbol for the higher side of Scorpio), and Aquarius. The books that they hold represent the wisdom of the ages. They indicate the laws of the universe, which are immutable, fixed, and cannot be changed. The wavy serpent symbolizes the descent of the life force into manifestation. The jackal-headed hermanubis (an Egyptian god Thoth, also a race of jackal-headed men) shows evolution of form, while the human body and animal head indicate that man has not evolved beyond the intellectual level. His ears above the horizon of the Wheel show that man’s interior hearing or intuition allows him to rise to a higher level. The sphinx depicts the developed human being to which we aspire. The woman’s head and breast, coupled with the lion’s body, show the soul in dominion over the body, in perfect harmony, hence exemplifying the union of male and female powers. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Jupiter (and Mars). When we work with the astrological correspondence of the double numbers, we take the number on the right and see it work through the number on the left. Here we have the God power, 0, working through Mars, 1, to bring about new starts and a change in fortune. The Jupiter influence from key 10, the Wheel of Fortune, gives us the faith and optimism that our new beginning will ultimately bring generous rewards. Once we have completed the basic 1 through 9 cycle, every subsequent digit merely repeats one of the original 9. Therefore, we can see why 10 is considered a new start. With the 9 we have finished a complete cycle, and in 10 we have the promise that the God power within us never ceases, but merely changes form, and that the new form still contains the life spark, Mars. 11/2 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: 11 is one of the four master numbers, along with 22, 33 and 44. All master numbers are powerful because they accentuate the vibration of the base number to which they can be reduced. As an 11, you can draw upon the cosmic forces for inspiration and for aid in attaining enlightenment and even cosmic consciousness. Your pronounced intuitive abilities can guide your original, inventive and creative mind. As you will probably be a leader in some way, you must use these higher vibrations wisely. True mastery is service, and you need to be practical as well as idealistic in the role you assume. Foresight and acute perception make you a visionary. You are idealistic and feel compassion for all types of people, regardless of their station in life. The desire to uplift others brings out the teacher in you. You can be a memorable teacher, speaker, preacher or writer, whose deep understanding of people’s needs inspires them and opens new avenues of expression within them. Your talent for educating others cannot go unrecognized for long, and probably you will become famous. You are the specialist who seeks accomplishment rather than glory, but who always seems to gain recognition at the same time. You feel that administering the law is important, and you are not content to sit back and spout platitudes. Your devotion to the expression of wisdom must find an energetic outlet so that you can actively participate in areas of life where your philosophy can be effective. With your sense of justice, fairness and honesty, you can become a leader in public and civic affairs, where your impartiality promotes better standards of living for the people whose lives you touch. You have the courage of your convictions and will fight legally to see them implemented. Your life will be busy and active, forever meeting tests and challenges. If you go to extremes in emotion, fortune and health, the high vibration of 11 will pull you out with renewed and surprising courage. You are intrigued by ESP, the occult and mystical and spiritual studies. Through some metaphysical or philosophical discipline, you can more easily tap your great creative potential. As an inspirational artist you can create objects of exquisite beauty that can evoke deep feelings in the viewer. You should work with others of a like nature. If you don’t respond to the higher vibration of 11, you live life as a 2 (see the reading for that number). You become involved in the details of your work and you may be forced into a life of servitude in some capacity. If you are a negative 11, you use your power harmfully, which will work to your own detriment by creating negative karma. You may be unfair, prejudiced and severe, and you should beware of hidden dangers. However, you can redeem yourself through charitable works. Use your 11 to create a balanced life, in which all your actions are weighed and measured. Your great insight and inspirational devotion will be an oasis in the parched lives of many people. 11/2 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Tests, legal dealings, inspiration, art, quick decisions. This master number period can be experienced as a 2 vibration if you do not live up to the number 11 potential. You will have to make decisions quickly, because sudden events will require decisive action. Experiences occurring now are exciting, stimulating and likely to make you impulsive, so you must be patient and tolerant. Get rid of past mistaken thoughts and actions that have set up negative circumstances and select the right combination of attitudes to produce more desirable results in the future. There can be legal dealings involving money in some way. For example, you could be the recipient or the executor of a legacy. Financial settlements are possible, and agreements and partnership complications may have to be settled. Educational considerations may arise now, for the vibrations of this period are urging you to seek a balance and weigh the meaning of life. If educational pursuits will achieve this end, then you will have opportunities during this period to enter a school, take a course or perfect a skill. Because your mind is highly sensitized, you should develop your psychic and intuitive abilities. The power of 11 must be made into something tangible and useful. A course in some metaphysical discipline would help you organize the nervous energy that is your connecting link to the high vibration of 11. Or you could develop your creative potential by working with more than one artistic medium simultaneously, or by collecting works of art and attending the theater and concerts. Surround yourself with culture. You are likely to have dreams, visions and revelations under this influence. If you are already prepared mentally and technically your talents may be recognized by someone who will offer you a promising position, or you may receive public acclaim for some personal effort. The spotlight is on you in some way. This is a testing and challenging period. If you channel your intense energies into something worthwhile, you will accomplish more now than you will in any other cycle. Master numbers offer master accomplishments. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 11. Justice. Teaching, education and guidance come under key 11, which seeks to bring about balance through justice. The scales here also symbolize the doctrine of karma—work, action and reaction, the law of cause and effect. The outstanding lesson of key 11 is to weigh the meaning of present conditions and achieve balance by overcoming the errors of the past. Use the sword of discrimination to eliminate mistaken thoughts. Libra rules here also and shows us that we communicate only through the seventh house of cooperation and through the principle of love. Libra rules the kidneys, the organs of elimination that maintain the chemical balance of the body. Through elimination of the poisonous toxins in our lives, we ensure a balanced life. The scales represent balance. There are 7 straight lines of equal length in the scales, representing the 7 centers in the body, and the 7 original planets: Mercury (key 1), Moon (key 2), Venus (key 3), Jupiter (key 10), Mars (key 16), Sun (key 19) and Saturn (key 21). ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Uranus (Libra). The Uranus vibration is emphasized in master number 11. This is a testing vibration in which you are required to weigh and analyze the tremendous energy that is flowing through your life. If this great personal energy is used impetuously or unwisely, it can bring on accidents (a by-product of nervous energy), legal difficulties and impulsive decisions. Libra seeks to calm the nervous Uranian energy, teaching you how to use these abilities in harmony with the environment and be a help to others. The accident potential is transformed into a specialized drive toward a specific goal; legal difficulties translate into important contracts; and impulsive actions become positively decisive. The catalyst is you, and, as always, you must decide how you will use the raw potential of the number. 12/3 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are an unusual person who has accumulated inner strength through your unique experience. Your poise sets you apart from the common world, which looks upon you as a sort of oddity. Your thoughts are centered in spiritual analysis rather than judgment of others. You have a perfect tolerance for divergent beliefs, philosophies and life styles, and yet you walk in all things contrary to the world. You know that reality is illusion, and illusion, reality. Many people in the world are ill, in great suffering and poverty, unable to exist in harmony with others and have trouble accepting even themselves. You know that these afflictions are expressions of the law of cause and effect and that whatever happens is a result of the individual’s own choice, either conscious or unconscious. Modem science and psychology have proven this. By reversing or changing your thoughts, you become free of physical encumbrances. Knowing these facts, you embrace a philosophy that the world laughs at because your thinking seems wrong. Yet, without antagonizing anyone, you have quietly reversed your way of life and at the same time come to understand other people’s ways. Peace and serenity fill your being, because even though you are earthbound, you have attained a measure of freedom. Your life is free of materialism and worldly matters. You epitomize wisdom. By crucifying the personal life, you have allowed the true self to be born. Others come to you for peace and guidance, needing your faith in life and in themselves. Your life may be one of voluntary sacrifice in which you encounter difficulties, trials and renunciation; however, no adversity can disturb your deep serenity. You have trod the Wheel of Ezekiel, the zodiacal circle and have accumulated the courage, wisdom and presence of mind that will preserve you. 12/3 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Waiting period, change of view, reversal, submission. Stop, look and listen. This is a quiet pause in your life, when you should spend time thinking, learning to see things as they really are and not as they appear. By bringing seemingly conflicting polarities into perspective in your mind, you create an inner harmony that is reflected out to your environment. Meditate upon the fact that the miseries of the world are self-imposed, caused by negative thought processes. If your world is in disharmony, realize that your thoughts have created the problems, and that a change of view is in order. Meditation, trips to the seashore or countryside, classes in philosophy and mind relaxation techniques will help put you in touch with the power now working beneath the surface. By submitting your consciousness to the universal mind, you can begin to see the errors in your thinking. The important elements begin to take precedence as you center yourself in the eye of life. Your affairs will take care of themselves now, without effort on your part. Some situations will come to a head and many will be settled, but you should suspend all decision-making. Let the cycle work for you: observe, reflect and meditate. Find the serenity offered by the vibrations of this number. If you remain absorbed in physical matters now, you may suffer reversals in friendships and fortune. Sacrifices will be required through trial and loss. Rather than fight these forces, flow with them. You will obtain what you want by remaining passive, sympathetic and tactful, as this vibration achieves success only through acceptance. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 12. The Hanged Man. The keyword for the Hanged Man is reversal. The corresponding symbol means oasis, sea, or water. According to the alchemists, water was the basis of all life, the fluid substance that solidified into physical forms. This substance which emanates from the stars and suns, is called astral fluid. The Hanged Man symbolizes the first water of the divine power. Water was the first mirror in which the reflection always appears upside down. The significance of this card is that things are not as they appear on the surface. You must look beneath the surface for true understanding. The man is suspended by his foot, like a pendulum at rest. His crossed legs form a figure 4, indicative of key 4, Reason. His elbows and head form a triangle with the point down which is an ancient symbol for water. The Hanged Man represents a person who is poised in consciousness and under perfect control. He is conscious of the one Power everywhere, yet centered in himself. He sees the trouble in the world; people unhappy in marriage, in trouble financially and lost because they have no goals - and he knows it is because they all see things upside down. Yet they look at him and think that he is the one who is crazy. The Hanged Man’s philosophy sets him apart from the crowd and, at the same time, brings him peace of mind and perfect contentment. Perhaps the world should examine his views. The ideal is to grow out of materialism by transmuting animal passion to human compassion. The twelfth step sees a man reversed, hanging upside down by his foot. The law of reversal is the keynote here, reversal from living egocentrically to giving selfless service to others. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Jupiter (and Neptune). Vulcan (2) and Mars (1) in unison produce the Jupiter (3) influence in this 12 or 3 number. Vulcan in mythology tended the forges in which expansion (Jupiter) occurred within the fire (Mars). Jupiter, as ruler of Sagittarius and the ninth house, represents expansion through higher education and deeper philosophy. In a 12 or 3, the purpose of this mental expansion is enlightenment in the abstract secrets of life. Many people remain in a dark room (Neptune), troubled by the ambiguities they see and experience. The camouflage (Neptune) in their lives can be destroyed only by seeking the true knowledge (Jupiter) which will allow them to erase the blind spots (Neptune) in their thinking, solve the enigmas (Neptune) of existence, and publish (Jupiter) their own truths (Jupiter). 13/4 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: 13 has always been feared as the death number, and indeed, it does represent death, but not in the ordinary sense. Death is merely change. When we are born into this life, we die from another level of existence. When we marry, we die as a single entity and are reborn as a duo. When the struggling artist receives recognition, he dies overnight as an unknown and is reborn as a famous individual. Change is simultaneous birth and death. The death connotation of 13 has arisen because most people respond to its lower side: immersion in fleshly desires and encapsulation in matter. Death then occurs through destruction and degeneration of the body. A few people respond to the higher side of 13, which involves complete satisfaction and attainment through regeneration or using the tremendous powers of this number to create and leave something of value with the world. There are no halfway measures with this number. There is enormous potential for ultimate attainment and equally great potential for complete destruction. It’s all or nothing. Your life as a 13 will