He now contemplates his work and notices the lack of fruit on the beautiful full-leaved vine. He realizes it has borne only leaves. He has arrived with his cutting blade to reap the harvest; now he contemplates what could have been lacking in his efforts. He is made to realize that material things are not enough to feed the soul. The nourishment of life comes only through spiritual cultivation. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Third decan Taurus. This area of the zodiac has produced many different types of individuals, all of whom have applied determination and persistence to achieve their goals. You have an independent and disciplined attitude; the Taurean plodding is here sparked with ambition. You accept challenges and responsible positions and go on to even higher achievement. 76/4 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are endowed with the ability to be a genius in your given field. You are accomplished in a craft or trade, and are a self-made person who works not for others but for yourself. You do not look for support but painstakingly apply yourself to the task at hand. You take life seriously and are both honest and modest about your accomplishments. Gain comes through dear thinking rather than emotional desire. You use logic in making decisions because you are accurate and analytical, a good planner and organizer, always adhering to orderly and steady growth as the proven way of advancement. You are not a world-beater as far as worldly attainment is measured, but you show progress by the example of your lifestyle and thus quietly teach others a sure way to successful achievement. What you do accomplish will be of great benefit in the long run, both to yourself and others. You should guard against all work and no play. Overwork can give way to anxiety and worry. Relax at proper intervals and take regular vacations to preserve your health. Allow time for spiritual awakening; this is also important for total happiness and gracious living. You exemplify wisdom evolving from quiet work. If you are a negative 76 or 4 you either never develop your skills and remain unproductive, or else you develop them for evil gains through fraud or forgery. This can only mean failure. 76/4 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Training, employment, skills. You now have the ability to develop your skills through some kind of training, apprenticeship or job opportunity. You should apply yourself to the task with concentration and dedication, resolving to improve your talents carefully and painstakingly. Do not allow emotions to gain the upper hand. Proceed with a clear head, use logic and organization to achieve your goals. Work quietly and unassumingly, for bravado is not the method of approach here. Your accomplishments during this cycle will prove valuable in long-range goal planning. Be sure to set aside periods for rest and relaxation. The tendency here is to push too hard, work too long and become overtired. This can bring on health problems. Balance your work with play; you are in a training period which is preparing you for future employment. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Eight of Pentacles. A workman dressed in plain garments, covered with a leather apron, is diligently carving a golden pentacle, symbol of money. The large stack of work piled high shows that he has kept at the job faithfully. His back is turned to everything else in the world; his attention is on his work alone. This picture shows honesty, attention to fine details and expert skills. It may also suggest that all work and no play makes a dull life, although pleasure and satisfaction may come from the acquisition of wealth. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: First decan Virgo. The modesty of Virgo shows through your quiet desire to be an example for others. You accomplish your goals by proceeding carefully and showing concern that the job is done properly and orderly. You must watch a tendency to overwork and become so embroiled in your profession that you do not allow time for leisurely pleasures. 77/5 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: Fruitfulness, productivity and physical perfection are the keywords for this vibration. You have all the comforts of life. Your good fortune may have come from thrift and industry, or through unexpected and mysterious means, such as legacies or gifts of appreciation. At any rate, you are very comfortable and protected which allows you periods for reflection and pleasurable pursuit. You have the insight to understand others, and you draw people to you. You are popular and self-confident. Emotionally you adjust to circumstances. You can be free and humorous or extremely cautious and serious as the occasion demands. Although you are shrewd and prudent, there is an imaginative and creative side to you in this highly sensitive vibration. Practicality and thoroughness are your foremost traits. Your ambition may arouse a desire to rise in station through responsibilities in social service or public life. Your urge for higher achievement prods you onward; your tact will aid you in this climb. You handle all affairs with skill. There is something of the aristocrat here, for you have all the material needs and physical enjoyments one could desire, but you nevertheless feel a duty to offer your services to bring about higher accomplishments for the world. If you express the negative 77 or 5, you may lose through extravagance the possessions you love so dearly. You thereby forfeit the privilege of indulging your personal pleasures. Your family and friends may be among your losses. 77/5 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Good fortune, popularity, achievement. From an unexpected source, you may receive gifts, money or an inheritance. This good fortune can evolve in mysterious ways, or it may be the result of your prudence and industriousness. However it comes, you will now have the resources for travel, entertainment and other pleasurable ventures. You will attract many friends, improve your social life and find yourself the center of attention. You are bright and charming; however, if circumstances demand, you can immediately become serious. Your creative side is awakened now. Enjoy this affluent period, but also be practical in all you do. Extravagance can cause dissipation and loss of money. Look at the goals you can achieve now that you have been released from financial cares. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Nine of Pentacles. A woman is shown elegantly dressed, with symbols of love, wealth and abundance in unmistakable evidence. The key depicts luxury and ease. The falcon on her hand is a symbol of aristocracy, as only those who have wealth and leisure can indulge in the art of falconry. The vines in the background are lush with fruit, thus completing this picture of ample wealth and security. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Third decan Virgo. This area of the zodiac bestows a great awakening of ambition, a desire to be more persevering and an urge for high achievement. This reflects a period in the life when further opportunity for advancement will be offered. Tact and diplomacy are attributes of your personality that make you skillful in handling your affairs. For those who are aggressive there will be opportunity to serve and to gain honor and recognition. This period often brings wealth and all around better conditions. 78/6 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: Here is ultimate attainment of desires on both the material and spiritual planes. 12 is considered the number of the perfect cycle as in the 12 months of the year and the twelve signs of the zodiac. The extension of 12, arrived at by adding together the numbers 1 through 12, is 78. In this number there is a high potency indeed. You know that you have reached attainment by extraordinary effort. You used great strength and persistence to reach a high material goal. Diligence and a well-ordered life round out the effort. Emotions are kept in a proper place in the midst of your luxury. Your high idealism and finely balanced nature create a desire to serve. Surrounded by family, tradition, wealth and comfort, you are now released from the vicissitudes of labor and are able to pursue philanthropic endeavors which will aid humanity. You are an extrovert: confident, secure in your possessions, ready to utilize your mental sagacity to establish fine living conditions and a semblance of justice in the world around you. Your love of art and beauty prompts you to support cultural endeavors financially. You will not work for the sake of work but only to establish and add an element of beauty to the better side of life. You have the financial influence to bring about such results. Harmony in the material world is a measure of what the balance between spirit and matter can produce: a fulfilling and comfortable life. If you express the negative 78 or 6, you can lose more than others because you have the potential to gain so much more. Since misfortunes and burdens can plague you, use caution in all your endeavors. 78/6 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Great fortune, happy family, the arts. You can acquire a great fortune during this cycle, both materially and spiritually. The seeds of ultimate fulfillment lie here, a fulfillment achieved through personal effort and tremendous perseverance. Leisure time, pleasure and the satisfaction of sensual desires create a feeling of wellbeing and self-confidence. You should maintain a level head in the midst of this opulence and set your sights on cultural achievements which can bring an uplift to the soul. Pursue creative work now, and support the world of beauty and art. A happy family life can be established here. Family lineage and prestige gain significance, and children abound. The idealistic structures you build under this vibration will have lasting and profound effects upon those who come in contact with them. They are monuments to the perfect balance between the material and spiritual. Do not allow yourself to degenerate into a state of idleness and dissipation because of the luxury bestowed on you now. The material life is only temporary; eventually one has to confront the soul. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Ten of Pentacles. This scene depicts both plain and intricate structural designs. There are also shown three phases of humanity which stand for three states of consciousness. The man, woman and child are symbolic of conscious mind, subconscious mind, and superconscious mind. Off to the side is the Ancient, observing and knowing the future of those he sees through the arch. The two gray dogs denote the development of the animal kingdom. (Gray is the result of mixing black and white; this shows balance.) Notice the balance scales built solidly on the arch, above the Ancient’s head. This implies that balance is won and the scales can no longer be tipped. The pentacles are arranged in the pattern of the Tree of Life design, showing that the greatest attainment comes from achieving balance while on the earth plane. This is a picture of success and fulfillment in every way. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Third decan Virgo. Financial prospects are good in this area of the zodiac if combined with the ability to use this influence properly. You have a sense of purpose without being too obstinate and serious. This comes from a combination of Saturn, Venus and Mercury. These qualities bring pleasure, art and practicality together; this results in service and sympathy in whatever affairs you meet during your lifetime. End of Main Book. APPENDIX. SYNTHESIS OF NUMEROLOGY, ASTROLOGY AND THE TAROT. NUMEROLOGY, ASTROLOGY AND THE TAROT are different ways of exploring the cycles of life experience. In this Appendix, the material presented in Part 2 of this book is summarized in table and chart form so that you can more easily see how each of these three ancient systems relates to the others. As you know, the 78 keys of the Tarot are divided into 2 groups: the Major Arcana and the Minor Arcana. The Major Arcana correspond to the numbers 0 to 22. These numbers are: the God-powered 0, the base digits 1 to 9 and the first cycle of double-digit numbers up to the second master number, 22. These numbers and their corresponding Tarot keys represent archetypal life patterns and are linked astrologically with the signs of the zodiac and the planets. This information is contained in Table 1. In Tables 2 to 5, we present the information contained in Chapters 2 to 5 of Part 2, which deal with the numbers 23 to 78, the Minor Arcana and the yearly astrological cycle. To clarify the relationship of these numbers to the Minor Arcana and the astrological cycle we have included Figure 7, which presents the information of Tables 2 to 5 in wheel form. In astrology we speak of Aries (fire), Cancer (water), Libra (air) and Capricorn (earth) as the cardinal signs. The cardinal signs govern the seasons and mark the equinoxes and solstices. For example, the astrological year begins with the Vernal Equinox; this occurs when the Sun enters the sign Aries, and marks the beginning of spring. In Figure 7 you will see that the king, queen and page of each suit correspond to the cardinal sign which governs the same element. The King of Wands (cardinal, fire) corresponds to Aries (cardinal, fire). You will also note in the tables and in Figure 7 that in the cardinal signs the kings, queens and pages of each suit are assigned the same astrological correspondence as the twos, threes and fours of the same suit. For example, in Table 3 and in Figure 7, the King of Cups (37 or 1) and the 2 of Cups (42 or 6) both correspond to the 1st decan of Cancer (0 degrees to 10 degrees Cancer). Here, the King acts in a role of royal protector ship, overshadowing the Two, which is at an earlier point in the cycle. Each card represents different manifestations of the same astrological energy. There are two other important cards in each suit: the knights and the aces. Each knight is pictured on horseback, representing movement and energy, and because of this symbolism the knights have come to represent entire seasons. Thus the Knight of Wands governs the spring, carrying the initial burst of Aries energy through the spring months of Aries, Taurus and Gemini, until the Sun reaches 0 degrees Cancer and the Knight of Cups begins his journey through the summer season. Just as each knight rules an entire season, each ace rules an entire element. The power inherent in the ace corresponds to all the manifestations of an element. Thus, the Ace of Swords corresponds to the entire element of air and rules the air signs Libra, Aquarius and Gemini.