Omnia in numeris sita sunt. (Everything lies veiled in numbers.) FOREWORD by FAITH JAVANE MANY OF MY STUDENTS and a number of people who have heard my lectures have expressed a desire for a complete textbook on numerology so that they could study their own life patterns in depth. Until now, I have neglected this responsibility, hoping that my classes would be sufficient. Also, I felt such a project to be beyond possibility. However, pressures have convinced me that a full-length text would be both acceptable and fulfilling. My study of numerology began in the spring of 1938. I found a teacher of astrology who insisted that before she would accept me as a student, I must study numerology. Since I very much wanted to study with her, I agreed to start with the numbers. Her approach to numerology, however, was like none other. She had received it in a unique way, from what she called the inner planes, which meant that she went outside her body to a mystical school for her instruction. She called this work Kabbalah because it had come to her through the mind and soul rather than from a flesh-and-blood teacher, or from a book. Kabbalah refers to secret information in symbolic form, whether in a numerical, verbal or hieroglyphic pattern. The biblical books of Ezekiel, Enoch and Ezra contain mystical revelations of hidden knowledge, including speculation about the mystical import of numbers and letters. The Kabbalist knew how to decode the esoteric messages in the Scriptures. I admit to some skepticism about my teacher’s beliefs, but I went along with her teaching. What she revealed we now call the Divine Triangle. It was known in the Pythagorean school (about 6th century BC) as the Life Theorem, and it is now commonly accepted as the proposition that: The square of the hypotenuse of a right triangle is equal to the sum of the squares of the other 2 sides. Pythagoras used the right triangle as a representation of the universe. It was his Eureka. According to my teacher, the master KH, whom she believed to be Pythagoras reincarnated, taught her that the right triangle could also be made to symbolize the world of an individual. This startling revelation is the original basis for the method of numerological delineation of the life pattern of an individual described in this book. In answer to many requests, I now present to you the secret of the Divine Triangle. FOREWORD by DUSTY BUNKER IN ANY PROFESSION one is invariably asked the question, “When did you become interested in...?” I have pondered that question long and deeply and now realize that it cannot be answered simply. There is no given moment when one thing ends and another begins. A great thunderbolt from heaven did not strike the ground before my feet, etching words in flame, pronouncing my destiny. Nor did I proclaim at noon on a Sunday, “I am going to begin now.” It just happened, naturally and with little fanfare. Metaphysics is as much a part of me as breath itself. As I studied over the years in one discipline or another, information began to fall into place more and more easily. Just as a child struggles to achieve balance upon those tiny feet, I struggled with many concepts and experiences until I found the proper balance. As the work progressed, the steps became easier and more natural. Now this philosophy I embrace so respectfully has become my love, my life and my devotion. I could speculate that it began eons ago in Lemuria or Mu or Atlantis or in the ancient initiation chambers of the Great Pyramid, or even in the sacred halls of the Lyceum with my beloved Pythagoras. Perhaps we do carry deep within our souls memories of past existences that eventually surge into our present incarnations, demanding fulfillment. Certainly, child prodigies are living proof of this possibility. Whatever the impetus driving us into certain professions, we seem to be inextricably bound to continue an evolution that some primal recollection tells us we have begun. I have been most fortunate along that path, for I was given the greatest of all privileges: a true teacher; that rare and much sought-after creature. In a pupil-teacher relationship, I met Faith, co-author of this book, in 1975. The relationship grew into a bond of respect, admiration and love. We presented our first book on May 1, 1976, and have now completed this, our 2nd book, inspired by the knowledge that there is a great searching in people’s hearts today, a need to comprehend the vast inner spaces as well as the outer spaces. Through this book we believe we can help fill that void with logic, reason, understanding and love. Through the sacred science of numerology, truths can be gleaned and souls can be set at rest. Go with us then, and discover your inner self, your reasons for being and the eternal splendor of the Spirit. INTRODUCTION THERE IS AN ORDER in the universe, from the atom to the solar system. Awakening interest in the rhythm of this order has called forth new efforts to synthesize the different methods used throughout the ages to understand it. Somewhere between the microcosmic and the macrocosmic, we look for the key that can put our world into logical perspective. We believe that the science of numbers can provide formulae which help clarify the evolving pattern of existence on earth. Enough ancient wisdom has survived the vicissitudes of time to suggest some basis on which to build new methods of analyzing personality, or at least to cast new light on the systems used in the past. Our methods, while containing the element of mystery, yet proceed in an orderly and practical way, using the numbers involved in names and birthdates to solve the enigmas of individuality, personality, and the patterns of function and fate carried through life by every human being. We invite you to experiment with this combination of ancient formulae and modern application. While it has not been presented, to our knowledge, in any book, it has been verified by thirty years of actual application and successful experience. The Divine Triangle, used as a blueprint of one’s life, reveals, step by step, from birth to death, what that life should express, indicating the potentials and pitfalls by a series of numbers from 1 to 78. We are all born at a certain date, hour and minute into the earth’s field of energy. The conditions and vibrations of that energy field determine to a great extent the particular actions and reactions that will characterize our entire lives. We are conditioned by the basic set of vibrations that were active when we took our first breath. The birthdate provides the pattern which we call the Life Lesson. The name given at birth, transcribed into numbers by use of the number-letter code used since ancient times and described in this book, provides the 3 vibrations we call the Soul Number, the Outer Personality Number and the Path of Destiny Number of a given individual. And by placing the name and birthdate formula on the blueprint of the Divine Triangle, we are provided with the key to the incarnation a soul has chosen for the attainment of certain goals. Your numbers tell the state of consciousness which you have reached and record the growth of your soul as well. One’s personal numbers are not isolated clues, but, like all phenomena, are interlocking pieces in the vast puzzle of existence. Therefore, for the benefit of those who wish to broaden their understanding of numerology, this book seeks to synthesize it with the sciences of astrology and the Tarot. To go into the vast and deep correspondences among the three sciences would require volumes; we are simply pointing out certain relationships that we have verified over many years. This book is divided into 2 parts. Part 1 presents the origins and philosophy of numerology. It explains how to determine the numbers that govern your existence and how to make a blueprint of your life by placing these numbers on the form called the Divine Triangle. There is also a chapter entitled More with Numbers, which shows you how to find the right career or determine your compatibility with someone else. A case study of Edgar Cayce, the beloved and well-known psychic who has been called the Sleeping Prophet, follows to illustrate the use of the Divine Triangle. Lastly, Part 1 presents a look at number symbology in the Bible, both in the Old and the New Testament. Part 2 of the book presents delineations of the numbers 1 through 78. Until now, numerology has been limited to the use of the digits 1 through 9 and a few double numbers ranging into the 20’s. The number 78 was not chosen at random; rather, it represents a total experience. The number 12 incorporates the basic 1 through 9 cycle, with an additional three steps in which to use the learned experience of the 1 through 9 cycle and bring it out to be shared with others for their benefit. It represents the 12 months of the year and indicates a complete cycle, a whole, a circle, as also exemplified in the 12 signs of the zodiac and the 12 disciples. The next step, 13, takes us into a new level of consciousness. Therefore 78, as an extension of 12 (1 + 2 + 3 + 4 + 5 + 6 + 7 + 8 + 9 + 10 + 11 + 12 = 78), symbolizes a complete round of experience. In the delineations in Part 2, the 78 numbers are fully described as numerical vibrations. They are also synthesized with the 78 Tarot keys and the planets, signs, and decans of the zodiac. As this amazing synthesis unfolds, one can only stand in awe before God’s work. Only a cosmic mind could have planned such an intricate pattern in which each science dovetails so exquisitely with the other. We repeat that to our knowledge this synthesis has never been attempted. The correspondences among numerology, astrology and the Tarot were not chosen at random; they have been tested through years of research and application. We believe they are accurate. We suggest that you try them for yourself, for it is only through personal verification that any belief or process is truly accepted. ONE. ESOTERIC NUMEROLOGY. NUMEROLOGY BEGAN when life began, because “in the beginning there was 1.” The vibrations then began and the 2 appeared, the first pair, and ushered in the real beginning of universal geometry. Numbers, by themselves, represent universal principles through which all things evolve and continue to grow in cyclic fashion. The digits 1 through 9 symbolize the stages through which an idea must pass before it becomes a reality. All manifestation is the result of these nine stages. Esoteric numerology is the art and science of understanding the spiritual significance and orderly progression of all manifestation. Every word or name vibrates to a number and every number has its inner meaning. The letter and number code, when rightly understood and applied, brings us into a direct and close relationship with the underlying intelligence of the universe. We owe much of our spiritual and scientific understanding of numbers to Pythagoras, the father of mathematics. Pythagoras is most commonly remembered for the Pythagorean theorem, which states that The square of the hypotenuse of a right triangle is equal to the sum of the squares of the other two sides. However, Pythagoras was primarily a mystic and a philosopher. He believed that “all things are numbers” and that numbers represent spiritual entities whose presence is felt in all existence. He discovered the mystical significance of numbers, noting that the numbers 1 through 9 stand, macrocosmically, for universal principles. On the personal level, microcosmically, they stand for characteristics, abilities and events. He saw in number patterns and geometrical ratios the explanations of all natural phenomena, musical harmony and tonal qualities. He knew that the stars and planets as vibrating bodies produced sound which became known as the “music of the spheres.” Pythagoras was born around 582 B.C. on the Greek island of Samos, in the Aegean Sea. As a young man he left home and travelled to Egypt, where he was initiated into certain mathematical doctrines. He is also reported to have studied with Zoroaster, the Persian sage, and to have learned the Kabbalah in Judea. The science of numbers he eventually taught was based on Kabbalistic principles. Pythagoras finally settled in Crotona in southern Italy and established a school of the mysteries. Before his students could proceed into the Pythagorean mysteries, they had to know the four sciences of arithmetic, music, astronomy and geometry. Plato was a follower of Pythagoras and it is to him that we owe most of our knowledge of the Pythagorean school. Pythagoras taught that, “Evolution is the law of life; Number is the law of the universe; Unity is the law of God.” He believed that everything in the universe was subject to predictable progressive cycles. His means of measuring these cycles were the numbers 1 through 9. He also taught that numbers have a significance apart from the values denoted by the figures. Numbers are different from figures. Numbers represent qualities; figures represent quantities. Numbers operate on the spiritual plane, while figures are for measuring things on the material plane. A lucid understanding of these digits is essential in the study of numerology because every number over 9 ultimately reduces to one of these digits. With a comprehensive knowledge of the meaning of these numbers, one can understand the orderly progression of all life cycles. The Numbers 1 through 9. Science claims that in a vacuum where nothing exists, in time hydrogen ions spring into existence. 1, as the first digit in the series, represents the ion, the beginning, the genesis, the first spark of energy emerging from the original source. It stands alone and isolated because it is the first; there is no other. It is independent of outside influences or assistance because it has chosen to seek its own self-expression, and cannot therefore be encumbered or swayed. It is decisive and independent and makes the choices necessary to ultimately determine its destiny. 1 REPRESENTS THE MALE PRINCIPLE, the yang. It is the pioneer, striking out alone, seeking the experiences which will establish its distinct identity. It is in the process of discovering its own abilities. It is raw energy, positive, original and creative, in a state of perpetual motion. Since 1 is alone and is imbued with so much creative energy, it must decide how its energy will be used. It must take command and have the courage to maintain its direction without fear of opposition. 1 is the real I AM of humanity, the unity of all, the unit of vibrational measuring. It is self-consciousness. Keywords: original, independent, aggressive, individualistic, creative, dominant; the first in a series, the start of any operation or activity, the leader, the pioneer, the boss who likes authority. “He who goes forth.” 2 IS THE PAIR, the duo. It is changeable and adaptable and can also be indecisive. It is the agent, the go-between, the diplomat and peacemaker, because unity can only be accomplished through a meeting of the minds, a compromise on each side. 2 represents the feminine principle of receptivity, the yin, which seeks a union of two distinct entities. It is the gestation period in which things begin to form. 2 collects and assimilates. It seeks a balance between opposing forces, and therefore represents cooperation, attachment and partnership. It is the peacemaker, with an avid attention to detail. Because 2 is so keenly aware of opposites, it has a pronounced sense of rhythm and harmony. Music appeals to its sympathetic and emotional nature. The maternal, patient and sensitive characteristics of 2 cause it to place others first, before itself. Union is its goal, not separateness; therefore, it is obedient to and understanding of others. It seeks harmony and assimilation above all. The hydrogen ions which sprang into existence under 1 are now hurtling through space. They will be drawn toward one another by the law of mutual attraction, or the law of number 2. Keywords: adaptable, tactful, understanding, gentle, cautious; a follower rather than a leader. 3 COMBINES THE QUALITIES of 1 and 2. It is a fascinating and diversified vibration, carrying the qualities of manifestation and self-expression. The ion, which sprang into existence from 0, sought to assert its individuality under 1 and felt the attraction of others under 2, now awakens to its need for social interaction. 3 is the need to communicate and become involved in the pure joy of living. Through its exuberant response to life, 3 bestows sunny radiance and enthusiasm upon all. 3 is the extrovert whose personal magnetism draws others and inspires them to expand and grow. It is the performer who possesses an innate appreciation of pleasure, romance, art and beauty. Its creative imagination allows all things to be possible; it therefore becomes involved in many emotions and experiences. 3 is friendly and expansive, thriving on sociability and variety. If any of the numbers could be called happy-go-lucky, it would be the effervescent 3. Keywords: expansive, sociable, dramatic, communicative, diversified, creative. 4 IS STABILITY, a 4-square consciousness, the symbol of law, system and order. It is firmness, security, stability and conservatism. It is the builder who must submit to earthly things where form and substance are the predominant elements. 4 is nature and relates to the earth. The formation of the earth took place on the fourth day in the biblical story of creation. The attraction the ions felt under 2 led to interaction under 3. Now, under 4, the inevitable concentration of energies occurs. Formation takes place. The ions realize that they can no longer scatter their energies, but must now begin to place them in a productive, orderly system. 4 therefore develops a practical nature, and through self-discipline, binds itself to a conventional routine exercise of its energy. Keywords: form, work, order, practicality, construction, stability, endurance, discipline. 5 IS FREEDOM, change and adventure. Curiosity and constant activity produce a resourceful, adaptable and versatile entity always ready to take a chance. Since 5 is the midpoint in the cycle 1 through 9, it allows for decision-making. It might be called the pivotal point in which the ions, now encased in flesh and form, must decide upon their future in the rest of the cycle 6 through 9. It now meets with many opportunities and varieties of experience through which it will be given the information it needs to make that decision. 5 is involved in much superficial interaction with groups and crowds. Because of its past varied experiences, it is the natural promoter and advertiser, fluent in communications, with a little information about a lot of things, and a desire to travel here and there to communicate it. 5 attracts the opposite sex because of an irresistible magnetism, and this attraction sets the stage for the domestic responsibilities which naturally follow under 6. Keywords: versatility, resourcefulness, adaptability, change, activity, travel, adventure, promotion, speculation. 6 IS CONSCIENTIOUS; it desires to bring harmony, truth, justice and a sense of balance into its environment. Love and compassion are uppermost in its mind, and it can therefore be an effective teacher, counselor or healer. Others are drawn to it because of the understanding which emanates from it. The ions, under 5, had the opportunity to experience many events and emotional encounters. They are now ready to take on social and family responsibilities, or the 6 vibration. 6 is a domestic and artistic vibration, and, under this number, the ions must adjust to the needs of others. The 6 desires a close companion, marriage and a home and family where beauty and harmony prevail. A need for group harmony and service to the community follows naturally. 6 settles down, blending into the conservative element of the community, where it can create better standards of living. Gifted in the arts, it can also express its creative potential through its developed sense of balance and become a fine artist in its own unique field. Keywords: family and social responsibility, service, love, compassion, counseling, healing, creativity. 7 SEEKS ANSWERS. It tries to establish a philosophy by which to live and attempts to penetrate the mystery behind its existence which it has never questioned to this point. Because solitude is necessary for analysis, the 7 feels the need to spend time alone, away from the crowds, in touch with nature. It looks for friendship with those of an elevated consciousness that can match its own. And on the seventh day God rested. All things rest under the 7 because time is needed in which to think. The ions under 7 feel poised and calm; they realize that they now need to be still and to know. They have established a routine for their energy, and now analysis begins. 7 ushers into the cycle a physical completion without apparent effort. Goals that have been long sought are now magically attained. Spare time is available in which philosophical and metaphysical interests can be pursued. Perfected thinking is the goal of 7, which is why it is called the sacred number. It is also why scientists, philosophers, teachers, mystics and the clergy come under this influence. The physical facet of 7 also relates to the health of the body which is highly sensitized through this vibration. Keywords: quiet, introspective, intuitive, analytical, inspirational, reclusive, philosophical, mystical. 8 WILL ASSUME POWER, for it now has achieved control and responsibility in its chosen field. Recognition and financial rewards are bestowed, and expansion and growth in the business world take place. Under 8, karma is king, and the ions will reap what they have sown. Power is the quality associated with 8. Ardor, zeal, steadfastness and the ability to see in broad terms give it the ambition and added qualities needed to achieve material goals. 8 has the drive to overcome all obstacles and eventually to succeed through ability and perseverance. 8 can now go to the very top with the ideas and plans that have been formulated gradually during the last seven cycles. Through fair and ethical standards, good judgment and organizational abilities, it will achieve recognition, power and financial remuneration. Keywords: power, responsibility, financial rewards, good judgment, recognition. 9 IS SELFLESSNESS and compassion. Encompassing a love for all, it desires to apply its energy to universal service. It bestows an impersonal but just view of life, one that is generous, benevolent and patient. This is the artist and thinker who has developed skills through the preceding cycles and is now ready to share his or her knowledge with the rest of the world. The ions are in their final state of completion. They have travelled the entire cycle of nine parts, ingesting experiences along the way. Now, in the closing cycle, they reach a total understanding and tolerance of others’ views and prejudices. 9 is ready to give back to the universe some measure of what it has learned through the eight previous steps of the cycle. The law of cyclicity allows for no waste, and demands input for output. When this is done willingly, the completion experienced under 9 brings only joy at the gift of life and the freedom with which to enter the next cycle unencumbered. Keywords: love, compassion, patience, universality, tolerance, selfless service, endings. TWO: YOUR PERSONAL NUMBERS AND PERSONAL YEARS. YOU ARE ENDOWED at birth with your own four personal numbers. These numbers tell you the lessons to be learned during your life and the spiritual growth and development which you can attain. The 4 personal numbers are: the Life Lesson Number, the Soul Number, the Outer Personality Number and the Path of Destiny Number. Your personal numbers are determined by the numbers in your birthdate and the letters in the name you are given at birth. To arrive at the numerical vibration of names, each letter in the alphabet is given a number value. A is 1; B is 2; C is 3; and so on to Z, which is 26. To work with the value of the letters beyond I, which is number 9, we reduce the value to a single digit. For example, L is number 12. We reduce the 12 by adding the first digit to the second; or 1 + 2 equals 3. The number 12 is then written as 12/3. The letter T is 20. We reduce the 20 by adding the first digit to the second, or 2 + 0 equals 2. The number 20 is then written as 20/2. The table below gives the number value of each letter in the alphabet. Learn this code thoroughly. Then you won’t have to keep referring to the table, which can be a slow and tedious process. The more you work with the code, the easier it will come to you. Notice that there are patterns you can learn. For example: A; J; and S, all reduce to 1. B; K; and T, reduce to 2. C; L; and U, reduce to 3... and so on. Train yourself by saying over and over: AJS. AJS. AJS. BKT. BKT. BKT. There are memory tricks you can use. For instance: number 6 is FOX. That’s an easy one. GPY sounds something like gypsy for number 7 - and number 8, HQZ, might remind you of headquarters. Use your own memory pegs so that the code will be readily accessible when working out the value of words. We can reduce any word to a number vibration by using our table, so let’s experiment with a few words before we begin with names. Place the number value above each letter, add the values, and reduce the total to a single digit, if necessary. There are 4 double digits which are not generally reduced. These are called the master numbers. Master numbers offer more opportunity for expression and thus demand more effort from the individual or thing in question. The master numbers are 11, 22, 33, and 44. Whenever you arrive at one of these numbers, retain the master number value. For instance: take the word "LIGHT". 3 + 9 + 7 + 8 + 2 equals 29, and 2 + 9 equals 11. Because “light” vibrates to master number 11, it is written as 29/11 rather than 29/2, which would be the case if we reduced it entirely. However, 2 is still acknowledged as the base number, and the word in question will fluctuate between the vibrations of 2 and 11. An individual will fluctuate between any master number and its base digit because the vibration of the master number is so intense and so powerful that it cannot be lived under continuously. Therefore, living under the base number for a brief period offers a moment of respite where one gathers one’s forces before attempting to work with the master number vibration again. Master numbers demand the greatest output from the individual, and, in return, offer the greatest reward. A name that vibrates to a master number is: MELANIE MAE CLARKE; which equals 65/11. Again, this number would not be reduced further, because it is a master number. However, this individual will fluctuate between her master number 11 and the base number 2. The word “roses” vibrates to 22: 9 + 6 + 1 + 5 + 1 equals 22. We do not reduce the 22 because it is a master number. In this system of numerology, we only use the numbers 1 to 78, for reasons which we explained in the introduction. When totaling a name, if you arrive at a number above 78, simply reduce that number to the next lower double digit or single digit, as the case may be. For example, if a personal number totals 86, add the 8 + 6, and work with the 14/5 vibration. Or if the personal number totals 106, add the 1 + 0 + 6, and work with the 7 vibration. Remember, all double digits that reduce to the same base number have the same basic meaning. The double digit reflects a variation of the single number. You could liken this to living in the same city but on different streets. Therefore, the numbers 12, 21, 30, 39, 48, 57, 66 and 75 all reflect the basic 3; however, the double digit expresses a variation of the original 3. Now that you know how to reduce any word, we will demonstrate how to arrive at your four personal numbers and explain what those numbers mean. The Life Lesson Number. The 1st of the 4 personal numbers we will discuss is called the Life Lesson Number. It represents the lessons you must learn in this lifetime and is most significant in your choice of a career. It is derived from your full birthdate. Even a business or idea has a moment of birth, and can therefore be treated in the same way. We will use as an example, Ada Wynn Lunt, born November 12, 1940. 1st, reduce the birthdate to numbers. November is the 11th month; therefore, Ada’s birthdate is written: 11 dash 12 dash 1940. Remember to write the full year of birth; not an abbreviated form such as 40. Next, reduce the year to a double digit by adding the year through once: 1 + 9 + 4 + 0 equals 14. Now we total the birthdate once more: 11 + 12 + 1940 equals 11 + 12 + 14. 11 + 12 + 14 equals 37/1. 37 is reduced by adding the 1st digit to the 2nd, or 3 + 7 which equals 10. Reduce the 10 in the same manner by adding 1 + 0. 37 is then written as 37/1. This is Ada’s Life Lesson Number. The Life Lesson Number is a constant