18 you allow the subconscious to surface. You become touchy and irritable. You may be deceived by others and experience losses because of hidden enemies and unforeseen dangers. You may make money from the conditions of war, but only if you are not involved in treachery or in promotion of the disputes. You have the power to heal. Your gentle presence soothes, and your intuitive insight mends the minds and bodies of those you touch. If you develop your healing potential, you can become an influential force in the relief of suffering. 18/9 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Caution, dreaming, healing, body care. You must slow down the fast pace of your life. You need to pay more attention to your bodily needs; therefore, exercise outdoors, eat properly and get sufficient sleep. Your dreams are active now, and any sleeplessness you experience is the product of an extremely vivid imagination. New plans and ideas are forming in your mind. Do not start new projects, but rather allow the ideas to germinate. They will blossom at a later date. Maintain your present status while considering changes, such as a new occupation. Healing forces are working beneath the surface, and your health can improve if you allow periods of quiet contemplation to calm your mind. Your thoughts have a potent control over your bodily processes now. Sign documents carefully or not at all, if possible. Be on guard against deception in business and difficulties in personal affairs. Family quarrels and accidents are caused by rashness or carelessness. Travel is not advisable. Mental unsettledness can bring a physical illness. Wars and revolutions are brought on by such vibrations. You have a unique opportunity to organize your life now. Set your environment in order, clean your house, organize your desk, finish up odds and ends. Such actions will direct your subconscious to set itself in order as well. Then your dreams and visions will express the future direction you should follow. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 18. The Moon. Evolutionary growth and development come under key 18. The keywords are organization and sleep. The function of the Moon is sleep, and, during sleep, waste is eliminated and new materials are woven into the body. Consciousness continues while the upper brain cells rest. It is during sleep that our aspirations and efforts are being built into the body cells. What we think and do all day goes on influencing the body while we sleep. Every cell is a center of consciousness, and every cell contains spirit. Astrologically, Pisces, the final sign of the zodiac, rules this key. The shellfish coming out of the water represents the lower form of existence. Shaped like a scorpion, it indicates the creative force starting on the path of return, which leads to the mountain of attainment. The narrow path implies that concentration is necessary. It goes up, then down, but always rises higher at the next step. It is meant to show that spiritual unfoldment does not come all at once, but rather progresses gradually. The dog and wolf are of the same species, but one is wild and the other is domesticated (depicting nature aided by human consciousness). The towers are human handiwork. The 32 rays of the Moon indicate the 32 paths on the Tree of Life, and the falling yods represent the descent of the life force from a higher plane into the material world. Many symbols here show that we can change the outward structure of things. They are proof that the same changes may be accomplished within the body through organization and cultivation. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: The Sun (and Pisces). The test of Saturn (8) is energized and supported by Mars (1), resulting in full attainment and realization (9, the Sun). With the combination of the Sun and Pisces, final completion is possible under this number. The Sun, representing true individuality finds its own true identity in key 18, which symbolizes body consciousness. By combining body consciousness and control with realization of one’s self, all things are possible. 19/1 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: Your leadership talents would be useful in public service. You will be the head of projects as the organizer, director or manager. You are very expressive with words and would make an effective speaker or lecturer. Art and science may also appeal to you, as well as agriculture, nature and the simple pleasures of life. Your tremendous vitality and intellect create a mind capable of overcoming any obstacles. You collect, synthesize and regenerate past errors into attitudes which assure your future success. Here, your faith and creativity constantly renew those aspects of living which others ignore, thereby ensuring your continuing growth. You epitomize the quote from Ecclesiastes 8 verse 1: “A man’s wisdom maketh his face to shine.” You attract love and money. A good marriage, contentment in the home, material happiness, honor and esteem can be yours. There may be many turns in your life that require new beginnings. You must master your emotions so that emotional upheavals and uncontrolled impulses do not cause material loss and failure. If you are a negative 19, you lead a double life. You create a positive image of yourself as one type of personality while living a secret life of falsity and deceit. In this respect 19 is called the spiritual fall. Your courage is being tested. You must learn independence and refrain from self-pity. Number 19 is karmic: the equalizer and collector. As a positive 19/1 you have great endurance. You know that it is always darkest just before the dawn. Reason prevails. Many turn to you for guidance because you collect and distribute the power which gives light and life. You use this light to warm, to create, to urge growth and life, rather than to burn and scorch. You will find happiness, rewards and victory over adversities when a degree of adeptness has been attained. 19/1 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Love, marriage, rewards, obstacles overcome, new beginnings. 19 is known as the love vibration, and marriage under this number is indeed fortunate. Happiness and contentment are enhanced by good fortune in material affairs. You may experience happy reunions with friends and family. Rewards, honors, and esteem are manifestations of your past productive and creative efforts. This period brings a brand new start for you, promising liberation and prosperity. Your energy, drive and ambition run high, urging you to step out on your own. Be independent, take a chance, for luck shines upon you. Any obstacles now can be overcome. New beginnings have life-energizing forces behind them, which promote growth and assure success. You must restrain impulsive actions and prepare future plans carefully. If you indulge your personal desires, you could cause difficulties for others, broken engagements, invalid or troublesome contracts and loss of personal possessions. The future looks very uncertain to someone who uses number 19’s energies negatively. Watch every opportunity and keep a positive faith in your own abilities; then you can achieve whatever goals you pursue. Great happiness and satisfaction are possible here. The choice, as always, is yours. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 19. The Sun. The Sun means face or countenance. Face implies head, one who takes the lead, as the head of an organization. This card also brings to a head all the potencies of the life power. The keyword is regeneration. We renew our bodies when we renew our minds. “Be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind that ye may prove what is the good and perfect will of God.” (Romans 12 verse 2). Astrologically, the Sun rules this key, bringing light and life, symbol of the divinity, the great divine power. We must control and adjust our lives through the Sun’s action. As the ancients knew, the powers themselves are neither good or bad; it is how they are used. The power of the Sun is not just a physical energy but also a living power. What we see in the Sun is identical with the spiritual power behind the Sun. Everything on earth is a manifestation of the Sun. The twenty-one rays of the Sun represent the twenty-one keys of the Major Arcana in the Tarot. The four flowers symbolize organized development: mineral, vegetable, animal and Adam-consciousness. Sunflowers always face the sun to draw their power, as we should do to develop our consciousness. The nude child astride the horse has sublimated the animal desires and is a symbol of the naked truth and an understanding of things as they really are. “Except as ye become as little children, ye cannot enter the kingdom of heaven...” (Matthew 18 verse 3). ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Mars (and Sun). The personal energy, the basic life force and the driving instincts of Mars must be controlled, channeled and raised to a higher level through the developed awareness and consciousness of the true life power, the Sun. All our energy comes from the Sun, and we in turn must radiate the energy we receive. Number 19 or 1 individuals must heed the advice given in the Bible: “Let your light shine,” (Matthew 5 verse 16). 20/2 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You will be faced with many decisions in your lifetime. You must learn to make judgments based on reason, not appearance. When measuring or sizing up people, see their works and not their reputations. Outward appearances can be deceiving, so you must exercise thoughtfulness before any final judgments are made. You like to control the people in your circle of influence and prefer to shape things to the ends which you deem worthy. Such a position necessitates choices; therefore, you are constantly tested: Should I do this or that? Is it wise to take this path or that path? Shall I go with the new or stick with the old? Deep within, you have an abiding knowledge of opposites; therefore, you are continually confronted with the need to make choices. As a result, your life is one of adaptation and renewal. New plans, new purposes and new ambitions present a continuing scenario demanding decisive action. This cyclical process creates the awakened human personality because the moment of judgment is the same as the moment of awareness. You cannot make a decision until you have weighed and measured all the facts and arrived at an awareness of the situation. Through decisive action you develop yourself and overcome the difficulties in life. Let your conscience guide you. 20’s have the power to make or break, save or slay. If you are a negative 20 you fear death and change from familiar habit patterns. You must learn control over your emotions. Your weakness brings on poor health, disillusionment, loss of material goods and separation from those you love. As a positive 20, you constantly renew your life through the many decisions you must make, increasing your realization and awareness of the perpetual adaptations that life requires. 20/2 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Turning points, decisions, awareness, adaptability, reconstruction. Sudden events require you to make a decision that could be a turning point in your life. A change of location, a new job or fresh relationships demand new thoughts, feelings and actions from you. Be able to see the alternatives, the pros and cons. In this way you will learn much about yourself and how adaptable you are. If you accurately weigh and measure your present situation or any situation presented to you during this period, you will formulate a profitable plan that can be implemented in the near future. Unless you act decisively to put your ideas to practical use, the influence of number 20 can make you restless and uneasy. Do not remain idle, and don’t waste time. You are experiencing a period of growth; future realizations are now germinating. Ingest, assimilate and create form from the energies operating here. It is a fine planning period. Come to reasoned conclusions, and the cyclical force will see your plans manifested soon. Do not resist the need for change. Remain adaptable, use your common sense, and come to a logical conclusion. Then you have fulfilled the requirements of this period. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 20. Judgement. The key symbols for this card are tooth, fang, and serpent. An ancient adept was called a serpent, and when we want to invoke silence, we pronounce the sound of the letter for this key: Sh. This indicates the silence of the wise. “Be ye wise as serpents” (Matthew 10 verse 16). Teeth break food and prepare it for digestion. Wisdom, which is kept silent, destroys the forms of the outer world and reveals the hidden nature of things so that you may absorb the spiritual essence. The cobra was the sacred symbol of Egypt and India. Its venom attacks every cell of the body instantly. The serpent’s fang conveys the poison. The analogy is that wisdom can be like acid which instantly eats away everything false. Therefore, the keyword for this card is realization. Astrologically, it is ruled by Vulcan. When we have gained realization of spiritual things, our personal consciousness is ready to blend with the universal consciousness. We then realize our oneness with God and our unity with all humanity. This state of consciousness begins with a mental grasp of the real world, where our attitude is the reverse of most people’s because we identify ourselves with the One Reality. Our subconscious minds are dominated by true will. Our judgment day is the day we have reached our ability to judge the true from the false. The card represents the call to judgment day. The angel Gabriel calls those who are ready to hear the truth which shall set them free and give them new life. Stone coffins, the human body, arise from the deep. They are black when closed, from lack of light, or truth. The 3 states of consciousness arise: man, consciousness; woman, subconsciousness; and child, super consciousness. In older versions of the Tarot, their arms spell the word lux or light. They have come into illumination. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Vulcan (and Saturn). Vulcan is doubly emphasized here through the double digit 20 (Vulcan is number 2) and through the base digit 2. In mythology, Vulcan was thrown from heaven. He became the keeper of the flame, tending the forges of heaven and earth. He was also known as the master craftsman. Despite the lameness resulting from his fall, he traveled frequently between heaven and earth. The analogy in the myth represents the fall of our spirit into form, ruled by Saturn. The spirit’s freedom is hampered by the physical body. The fiery life force must be well tended by keeping open the line of communication between the body and the spirit. Vulcan may eventually be assigned to Virgo, the perfect servant and tender of health, as was Vulcan. Artisans are also assigned to Virgo. In 20, the God power 0, works through Vulcan, 2, to bring about the union of what appears, in the physical form, to be separate parts; spirit and matter. 21/3 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: This is a number of general good fortune. You have talent, charm, and luck, all of which bring success. A good memory and a positive attitude toward life are the basis of your luck. Advancements, honor and recognition are possible during your lifetime. You are patient. The limitations that most people fear become the cornerstone for your successes. Your administrative ability is enhanced because you know that the only way to rule nature is to first obey its rules, its limitations. Adherence to the orderly progression of things assures your triumph in all pursuits. The act of concentration is a sort of limitation, and concentration is the basis of science. You see the necessity of limits in the evolution of life and can validate these beliefs in scientific pursuits. The arts may call you, and many 21’s have enjoyed literary success because they are so expressive. You have achieved the union of wisdom and love through past efforts and may now desire to reveal these truths in an art form. Your professional pursuits may require changes of residence. Traveling and moving satisfy your innate need for liberation and freedom. If you are a negative 21, you fear change of all kinds. You lack vision and become greedy and selfish. Your tenacity assures eventual loss, as others manage to take away the very things that give you security. You are stubborn and refuse to learn life’s lessons. You can be an example for others through service and material attainment. You will make a mark in life. Others see you as the ultimate realization of the personality to which they wish to evolve. 21 is the mystical number of the cosmic consciousness. 21/3 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Travel, change, rewards, success, new worlds. This is a very potent period in which the old order changes, making way for the new. The newly revealed world offers ultimate realization of your plans, hopes and wishes; therefore, do not overlook opportunities that arise now. Plans already in progress may come to a successful completion, with accompanying rewards. Those plans still in the thinking stages should be carried out now, as the potential for success is high in this period. You can accomplish what you desire. Travel may be part of this cycle, and faraway places lure you. The desires for freedom, self-expression and pleasure urge you to look to distant places for fulfillment. A change of jobs and/or residence may result from your present thinking. Your subconscious is developing at a pace faster than usual during this period, along with a growing sense of security and protection. Many marriages take place under a 21/3. Mental or physical investments made here bear fruit. Those who react negatively must guard against losing emotional control. They see family responsibilities as burdens. They experience delays and restrictions and neglect to grasp offered opportunities. For them, all situations must be examined carefully. Legal counsel should be employed in business dealings because material loss is possible. For you, this period is one of reward. Realize that the opportunities opening for you now can fulfill your future dreams. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 21. The World. The key concept for this card is a mark or cross that has equal arms. A cross is sometimes used in place of a signature, therefore it takes on this meaning also. The symbology here is cosmic consciousness, which is the final seal of the great work here represented. At this point we have gained control over ourselves and our environment. Right decisions are now natural, and the One Power becomes the central reality in our lives. Saturn rules key 21. The Saturn center at the base of the spine, called the sacral plexus, is the storehouse of excess energy left from each day’s activities. Saturn has been considered a malefic; however, it can help build for the future if one uses the energies in the sacral plexus for constructive action. In mythology, Saturn was the father or the god who ate his children; this means that the cosmic consciousness swallows up all lesser consciousnesses. The bull, lion, eagle and man represent the four fixed signs of the zodiac and indicate that the laws of the universe are fixed and orderly. The wreath in the form of a zero or egg or seed is that from which all things issue forth. This is the divine power. The dancing figure is androgynous, a unity of opposite polarities; however, the veil hides this fact, showing that cyclicity also brings about this androgynous state. The figure stands on air, self-supported and perfectly balanced. This picture represents the dance of life, which is never ending. 21/3 is a new heaven and a new earth or a new mind and a new body. When we have renewed ourselves through study and practice, the old order will change. New plans and a new outlook will prevail. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Jupiter (and Saturn). Traditionally, the conjunction of Jupiter and Saturn prevails over the birth of avatars and holy persons, those who bring a message of inspiration to the world. Here this combination of planets seeks to unite the things of earth, under the rulership of Saturn, with the wisdom of the higher mind, under the control of Jupiter. Only then can Saturn’s malefic hold on many people’s lives be transformed into the highest achievement which Saturn has to offer while in the physical body to bring about elevation to the apex of the horoscope, the sacred spot closest to the Sun, the One Source. 22/4 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: This is one of the four master numbers (11, 22, 33, 44), and it can be experienced as either a 22 or a 4, or as a fluctuation between the two during your lifetime. You have the potential to accrue vast wealth and power on a world-wide scale. Your greatness can be achieved through resources, including people. You are the philanthropist whose fortune gained from material achievement is used to build a better world. Your originality allows you to create solutions to problems that others consider unsolvable. You have a genius for thinking in broad terms while always arriving at practical solutions. You are hard working, honest in dealing with people, and above all, ethical. You are a master at directing others but be careful never to exploit them for selfish reasons. Overwork and a desire for power and control can create a negative 22 whose potential for evil can produce a ruthless and even infamous type. Overwork brings on emotional difficulties. You have strong opinions and a great deal of wisdom, which is always directed to practical uses. You can contribute to shaping the destiny of the world through industry, politics or the professions. Firmness in friendship and all relationships, including marriage, provides the secure base from which you meet the world. You have enormous leadership and policy-making abilities. With effort, of which you are extremely capable, you will become one of those financial tycoons whose name lives on through good works that benefit millions. 22/4 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Travel, plans, advancements, your dreams come true. 22 is a master number and the ancient numerical value for a circle. As such it implies completion, fulfillment and cyclicity. Under a 22, you are reaching your goal; the fulfillment of your secret desires can become a reality. Success on a huge scale and attainment of those impossible dreams are very possible. You should make those big plans, dare the mighty deeds you have only contemplated up to now. Traveling toward a goal can also suggest physical travel, which is a distinct possibility here. Make sure your concepts are well organized and practical. Think in large sweeping terms, and go to the head person with your creative ideas. They have a good chance of being accepted now. Many people can benefit from the ideas you present under a 22, and as a result, you may be given a top position. You are now the known expert in your field, and others come to you for opinions and advice. This is a very tense period when you will be dealing with groups of people. Guard against extremes; do not be too extravagant with money, and do not speculate in uncertain enterprises. Stay away from gambling. Deal only with practical matters during this period. Overindulgence may cause the dissolution of affairs which otherwise have good potential. If in doubt about any matter, consult a professional. Do not trust just your own judgment. Once all the facts are collected, rely upon your own intuition, which is based on reason, to supply you with proper decisions. It can all be yours during this powerful material period. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 0; and 22). The Fool (before and after). The master number 22 holds a unique position in the Tarot deck. Theoretically, the Major Arcana begins at key 1 and continues through key 21. The Minor Arcana begins at 23, the King of Wands, and continues on to 78, the Ten of Pentacles. The Fool, as key 0, stands by itself, representing the God force. 22 would seem to be missing; however, since cyclicity is the essence of life, there can be no ending. Therefore, the Fool, key 0, is the life force before entering manifestation, and 22 is that same key 0, the Fool, having walked the 21 keys of the Major Arcana to complete that full cycle and step once more beyond the present incarnation. 22 is an ancient numerical symbol for a circle, and therefore represents the Alpha and Omega, by which the Lord described Himself in the Bible. The word fool comes from the Latin, follis, meaning a bag of wind. Every genius is called a fool at some time, and that which contains air or breath could be called a bag of wind; therefore, we are the Fool in that sense. The Fool is the super-conscious, pictured here as having room to take one more step. This indicates that we never come to the limit of our potentials. The white Sun is the universal radiant energy eternally rising, for it can never reach its zenith. The mountains indicate attainment. They are cold and uninteresting to many, but from their peaks melting snow feeds the streams and makes the valley fertile. So, too, ancient wisdom will feed your consciousness and transform your life. The Fool’s wreath symbolizes victory. His wand is a measuring tool by which we continually evaluate our accomplishments. His wallet contains memories of the past, and the eagle on the wallet symbolizes the awakening of higher vision toward loftier aspirations. The dog under the Fool’s control is the subhuman forms of life that are elevated by the evolution of the consciousness. The white rose in the Fool’s left hand indicates that his desire is pure or spiritual and untainted by lower desires and passions. The Fool here is the cosmic life force about to descend, inexperienced, into the world of manifestation. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Earth (and Uranus). Since the master number 22 reduces to a 4, the earth holds dominion in this vibration, coupled with Uranus, which is assigned to key 0, the Fool. Consciousness is a state of mind. The presence of Uranus here links the super conscious to the earthly power indicated by the 22 or 4. A blending of spiritual conscious awareness with the proper use and control of the world’s material offerings, including the body itself, gives the perfect state of being. Once this has been achieved, the individual is no longer bound by earthly considerations but merely uses them with reverence and respect. TWO: THE WANDS. 23/5 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: This number can lead you to honor, fame and material gain. Your strength is in your material ideas. You exercise intelligence in your actions and wisdom in your control. With your quick, clever brain, you learn easily and retain what you have learned. You also have the courage and daring to enforce your ideas in the material world. You enjoy exercise. Physical agility maintains good circulation and increases the brain power; therefore, your agile body and energetic mind make you a sure success. In addition, you possess healing abilities. You are gifted in speech and writing and may be known as the monarch of ideas. Thus a career in communications is possible. Researchers also come under 23 or 5. Because you are loyal and passionate, you enjoy a good marriage and children. Inheritances may come to you during your lifetime. You thrive on constant change and adventure. Learn to make each change a step in a constructive direction. You are sometimes headstrong and hasty; learn to handle this fiery energy within, and direct it accordingly. Your friendly, honest approach to others and your ambitious nature attract people in a position to aid your progress. Through your superiors you will have opportunities to better yourself. This is a karmic reaction brought on by your willingness to help others. If you are a negative 23 or 5 strict adherence to principles can create a severe, patronizing personality. You become selfish and resort to outbursts of temper when life does not go your way. As a positive 23 or 5 you can look forward to a comfortable life, surrounded by a loving family, material comforts and the honor and esteem of your peers. 23/5 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Protection, contracts, travel. There are powerful protective forces around you now to guide you into safe ports. Follow the advice you receive from superiors or those in a position to know more about the subject in question than you do. Then your pursuits and goals will be successful. You could inherit money and material goods through settlement of an estate or legal proceedings. You may enter into new contracts which could alter your life, and such agreements may require quick decisions on your part. Marriage is one such contract that reacts favorably to this vibration. The changes now occurring may result in travel. It may be to fulfill the obligations of your agreements or because good fortune has increased your finances and allowed you this extra pleasure. If others oppose your ideas, be careful not to allow the difference of opinion to degenerate into quarrels. A severe approach can alienate friends. Be truthful and helpful during this period. Your attitudes will be well rewarded through material gain, peace of mind and contentment. TAROT SYMBOLISM: King of Wands. The seated figure looking at the world indicates a mental attitude of looking toward the future, possibly deciding to change his point of view. Decorated with lions, the background screen indicates that the fixed powers of the divine law are behind him, and he is aware they are his to use. Salamanders represent spirits living in the element fire and denote that the king is able to handle fire; he can control the fire of the self and nature. He is holding the live wand of spiritual power. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: First decan Aries. The