King of Wands presides over the first decan of Aries. (A decan is a ten-degree division of the zodiacal wheel; each of the 12 signs spans thirty degrees.) This Mars-ruled decan combines to make this a strong, driving force. You learn easily. You want to lead and be at the head of things. You have an abundance of ideas and aspire to improve existing conditions. You are ready to gain all the knowledge you can and you enthusiastically grasp opportunities to progress intellectually as well as physically. Your creative and inventive ability may express itself in the direction of science or other mechanical pursuits. 24/6 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: With your magnetic personality and powers of suggestion over other people, you can attract all the material comforts and nurturing relationships anyone could possibly desire. People with authority and people of influence are always anxious to see to your needs. The help you receive promotes your success. This is a fortunate love and family vibration. You are a good companion and helpmate, and you love your home, children and nature. Pride, ambition and a love of life make you a lively mate whose fulfillment comes through creating an abundant lifestyle where all things may be nurtured and grown. You may have many children whose religious, scholastic and physical growth you will carefully promote. You are a stately individual, kind, generous and patient. This number allows full expression of the harmony you seek with others. A desire for truth and justice sets you in a position where others see your sincerity and respect you for it. You are a success socially and financially. You have sound business judgment and are practical with money. Visions, dreams and ESP experiences bring you much insight and enhance your creative mind. You may also have clairvoyant experiences. If you are a negative 24 or 6, you may be jealous, unfaithful and domineering to loved ones. You are stubborn, and when crossed, you can be revengeful. 24/6 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Family matters, gain, love. This is a highly favorable period in which all undertakings can terminate successfully. You gain financially with the help of people in authority or through members of the opposite sex. Your success can depend upon these very people. Now is the time to make plans. You may have flashes of insight on how to proceed in the future. 24 or 6 is a love vibration. Marriage and the birth of children are possible, and many matters concerning the family arise now. Your happiness depends on love. You are experiencing a period of harvest, the reaping of the seeds you have sown in the past. You may receive the respect of your peers for some efforts. Financially, you stand to gain from sound practical judgment in business dealings. Understand the feelings and emotions of other family members, and be available when they need your wise counseling. Be generous, helpful and patient with those near you, and your efforts will be rewarded. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Queen of Wands. The Queen holds the wand of live power in her right hand; the sunflower which always turns to face the Sun is in her left hand. The sunflower refers to the Leo decan of Aries. The black cat in front of her throne represents clairvoyant powers. The 2 lions on the backdrop and the carved lions on her throne again suggest Leo and also bring in key 8, Strength. The triple peaks in the background depict attainment on three planes of consciousness. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Second decan Aries. The Queen of Wands presides over the second decan of Aries which is the Leo decan, presided over by the Sun. This decan gives a high-spirited and ambitious temperament. It is a fortunate number in that your generosity and magnanimity are rewarded in kind by those with whom you deal. You attract success and assistance because of your sunny, optimistic outlook. 25/7 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are strongly intuitive and often have prophetic dreams. You may be clairvoyant as well. These are qualities you have developed by overcoming many obstacles. Your early years may have been difficult, and these trials may have helped you overcome instability. You had to awaken to the truths within and thereby acquire wisdom. What others see in you as intuition is merely a developed talent of observation and attention to details, which allows you to piece together the whole and arrive at conclusions much faster than others. If past experiences have not taught you to develop these qualities, then you should begin now; otherwise, your impulsive nature can turn challenging situations into conflict. You have an alert, energetic mind, which always seeks new enterprises, ideas and locations. You like nature and may prefer to live in the country rather than the city, perhaps near the water. Your adventurous disposition tends to make you more mobile than most, and you may often change your place of residence to fulfill this wanderlust. A pioneering spirit and a quest for knowledge bring out the fiery missionary zeal within you, and you become a spiritual crusader. Remain alert to various ways to overcome the obstacles you will meet and work hard to follow through with the job; then you will achieve leadership in any business or enterprise you embrace. If you express the negative 25 or 7 it will cause conflict and a loss of energy. The job never gets done. Laxity and unfulfillment can then bring on cruelty. 25/7 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Change of residence, trials, health, success after difficulty. You may experience trials and difficulties now which will make you draw upon your energy reserves. Success can be yours, but it won’t be handed to you: it comes after hard work and perseverance. During this period, use your mental energy positively and constructively. Visualize what you want and keep the thought ever present in your mind. Hasty actions can cause conflicts. Sudden decisions may necessitate a change of residence, a trip or some other kind of movement. Travel should be undertaken with care; the wise person does not stay at home but travels cautiously. Annoying health conditions may arise and need attention. Sign all documents only after consulting an expert in the appropriate field. Then proceed, assured that your enterprises will be very successful, because you have taken into account all details and mitigating circumstances. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Knight of Wands. The Knight is dressed in his suit of armor and is riding to the conquest. This indicates his burgeoning thoughts about a new enterprise and his desire to win. His crusade could be a search for the truth, because his weapon is the wand of divine power. The salamander symbol on his robe indicates his ability to handle the fiery energy. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Spring (Aries, Taurus, Gemini). The Knight of Wands presides over the spring season, from the time that the Sun enters the sign Aries until it reaches the summer solstice at 0 degrees of the sign Cancer. The Sun is exalted in Aries, and its power awakens new life as nature responds to its wanning rays. Like nature, at this time of year you gain strength through mastering obstacles. There can be difficulties as you struggle to meet the Sun’s promise, but you persevere through hard work. 26/8 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: This is a karmic number. It designates a life in which you learn about the world around you through experience. Stressful situations eventually develop your self-confidence, at which time positive action brings prosperity and fulfillment. You have enthusiasm, courage and a desire for power. The power will come when you have learned wisdom and developed strength through self-control. Your impulsiveness involves you in sudden love relationships. That same impulsiveness causes irritation in others, creating tense situations. You must learn self-control, patience and endurance. You must be subservient to the laws of nature before you can master them. You are a gifted speaker who could become a lecturer, debater or diplomat. Communication is vital because your wide-angle vision allows a view of the whole, while others are mired in the parts. Your ideas are looking for assimilation; only through communication will your concepts find realization. Through interactions with others you will learn to form enduring relationships which will fortify your position in life. Your relationships are decidedly karmic and will be either destructive or supportive, depending on your past actions. You could excel in sports, especially running, sprinting, high jumps, skiing, gymnastics, etc. You most likely prefer outdoor sports, pursuits which involve the legs, coordination and a sense of balance. 26/8 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Messages, marriage, gestation, karma. Expect some kind of message, tidings or good news. Since this is a karmic period, you may meet a marriage prospect or someone who will figure importantly in your future. Many pregnant women are under this vibration, suggesting a karmic relationship between the child and parent or parents. This is a good time to develop your powers of expression. Take an elocution course or learn a foreign language. Study a subject that will broaden your horizons and enhance your experience. 26 or 8 is a splendid financial vibration; however, use good judgment. Check out all the details before making investments or going into partnership or agreements. As a negative vibration, you may receive bad news of some kind. Partnerships or contracts may be broken and losses can occur, causing indecision. If positive, expect the very best. Beautiful relationships can be formed now, ensuring a lifetime of happiness and fulfillment. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Page of Wands. The standing youth seems to be taking the measure of his power. He feels his inner strength but has yet to test and prove it on the open plain before him. Though he wears the salamander robe of protection with confidence, he nevertheless mentally inspects the working of divine power in his wand. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Third decan Aries. The third decan of Aries brings in the Sagittarian co-rulership of Jupiter. You have an energetic nature and are fond of outdoor sports. Your benevolent, jovial and expansive nature tends to bring worldly prosperity, giving you the power to control others. You maintain an attitude of self-confidence even under stress because of the Jupiterian vibrations present here. 27/9 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: This is a number of great spiritual strength. The beginnings of a deep spiritual understanding endow you with insight and prescience. You should follow your own intuitions rather than allow yourself to be swayed by others. You are just, and wise; you wish to maintain harmony and to help others mentally, physically and spiritually. You have a fertile, creative mind and a love of beauty and art. Energetic, inventive ideas bring unusually successful results after many attempts and changes. Others seek you out because you always have an original approach to the solution of their problems. Your creativity extends to the physical plane: you will produce an abundant family. Civilizations are built upon the stuff of which you are made. All business enterprises will succeed beyond expectation with you at the helm. Your mental strength and positive attitude endow you with the power to act independently. You impress other people so that they are willing to follow you and implement your ideas. Your influence over others, coupled with an ability to lead, brings you wealth and comfort. If you are a negative 27 or 9, you are confused and indecisive, never knowing what path to take. You are also intolerant of the failing, or what you deem the failing, of others. You have a tremendous opportunity in this lifetime to develop your ideas in a tangible way. There is no question that your mental capabilities are great. Now you must bring your ideas out of the realm of concepts and make them a reality. Create useful products that will benefit the world. 27/9 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Birth, marriage, start of new business. Things are growing, blossoming, and bearing fruit under this vibration. It is a fertile, promising period in your life. Relationships bloom and bring deeper understanding; therefore, marriage and close partnerships are a probability here. If you have been planning to open a new business, patent an idea, have a showing or present any kind of creative enterprise, now is the time to do so. This vibration brings together all the ingredients for a successful promotion. You will enlist the aid of others. They, in turn, will be more than happy to see that you receive what you need, because your positive attitude is infectious. This could very well be the beginning of your fortune. The events occurring now will ultimately bring the wealth, prosperity and goals that you seek. A negative reaction could bring delays, postponed travels, the termination of an existing business or generally unhappy feelings. By expressing a positive, expectant attitude, you can bring about the best side of this unusually excellent number vibration. You are off on a happy new adventure in many respects. A trip is possible, but if you do not travel physically, you are at least on a journey toward your innermost dreams. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Ace of Wands. The hand of God holds forth a living wand, a growing thing with green leaves. Some leaves fall to earth in the form of yods, the sparks of inspiration and creation. The wand dispenses life to all areas, for all purposes. It is pure invention, waiting to be tapped by those who would use this spiritual power. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: The element fire (Aries, Leo, Sagittarius). The aces of the Tarot pack preside over the elements fire, earth, air and water. The fiery element relating to the Ace of Wands indicates that you should follow your own intuition and not deviate from what you feel is right. You are inventive, creative and inspired; you bring originality to everything you touch. Art and beauty, peace and justice are very much a part of you. 28/1 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: If you use care and good judgment, there are great possibilities for your life. You are ambitious and progressive, willing to lead and take responsibility. You wish to improve existing conditions. Your positive, direct approach to life instills zest in every new enterprise you initiate. You are a person of action with the ability to see things as they really are, unclouded by preconceived ideas or thoughts. You have good judgment because you have a direct link with your source of knowledge and a perfect balance between your desires and your thoughts. You are a visionary with the ability to translate your dreams into tangible products. There is a vital, stimulating, resourceful quality in this number, always ready for action and pioneering ventures. With boldness and courage, you are the master of your fate, the sovereign of your world. Your talent for inspiring others, your balanced mind, kindness and generosity create a karmic reaction which brings you success and satisfaction. You are attractive to the opposite sex. Money and good fortune are your payment for giving others your energy and material assistance. You may have an interest in scientific procedures. Negatively, a 28 or 1 can be reckless and daring. You should practice self-control to regain a balance. You can be proud, dominating, intolerant and full of contradictions. Losses may result from poor judgment and misplaced trust in others. You probably work better if you do not work alone, and at this point you may need to begin again, profiting by experience. Once you have determined your goal and learned to trust your intuition, you will be well on your way to a position of contentment and worldly influence. 28/1 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Contradictions, competition, surprise, unusual events. This period offers many opportunities that may result in a series of unusual or unexpected events. If you proceed with caution, your finances could improve and prosperity result. There is a competitive aspect here which suggests opposition. This could result in losses through partnerships, the law, or placing too much trust in others. Herein lies the contradictory nature of this number vibration. Land and property dealings can bring unexpectedly good profits or surprising losses, depending on your original motives and behavior. If you have been honest, ethical and aboveboard, you can expect the former. Be prepared for events that come up suddenly that will test your ability to judge fairly without becoming too emotional or too stem. Good judgment is essential in all transactions and agreements. If you obtain the facts and use them wisely, you can have very profitable relationships with your peers. Some people, believing that they have all the answers, resort to sudden rash behavior. The promising beginning now offered is then lost by this lack of judgment. The outcome of this period seems to rest solely in your hands. You have the reins; you can direct your energy down the primrose path or to the town dump. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Two of Wands. A man is holding the world in his hand, indicating unlimited opportunity for achievement in any line. He is dressed in the red robe of activity and desire. He is surrounded with live power shown by the two firmly planted living wands. He looks out over the water, signifying the recognition of subconscious powers. The garden in the background shows work that has been done in previous lives. The emblem of crossed lilies and roses shows that physical desire and spiritual unfoldment are blended harmoniously. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: First decan Aries. There is a vitalizing, stimulating and resourceful quality in this division of the zodiac. You have courage and passion and are always ready for action and pioneering ventures. You are attractive to the opposite sex. You are emotional, generous and affectionate; at the same time, you are proud and aggressive. You understand there are many ways to accomplish any goal, and this can sometimes create difficulty in decision making. Therefore, you must learn patience, and profit by past experiences. 29/11 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: 29/11 is a master number and as such requires more of you than the other number vibrations. (Read number 11 and number 2, as you may fluctuate between these two basic energies.) This is a testing incarnation in which the strengths you have established in the past must now be put to a commercial use. You are a novice in the business world that now beckons, yet you have all the tools necessary to operate a successful enterprise. The word wisdom vibrates to 29 or 11 as does the word light. The positive side of the vibration endows you with the vision and foresight necessary to look beyond the ordinary world and see the uses for your many talents. You are then able to achieve wealth and success in the business world. Other business people are willing to help you achieve your goals, and you can enter a profitable financial partnership. Just as light is physically unstable and fluctuating, this number indicates uncertainty, indecision and anxiety. This energy can draw you to unreliable friends and contracts which become testing situations. Pride, arrogance and stubbornness sometimes prevent you from admitting your error. However, once fears are overcome and barriers lifted, you look back into your pool of knowledge and establish again a position of strength and stability. You are definitely an individualist. You have vitality and a generous nature. You must learn the fine art of cooperation, since you like to have the last word. Learn to make up your mind and stick to it. When you are able to persevere in your goals, you will, after some struggle, attain your hopes and dreams. 29/11 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Learning period, commercial opportunities, help offered. This is a master number period. It requires more effort from you but promises greater rewards. Be alert. Keep your eyes open and watch for opportunities that come your way. Use good judgment and insight in evaluating the offers that are presented to you. Do not overlook or ignore any possibilities. Learn to see the advantages at hand and grasp them. Business ventures and commercial openings offer a new approach to life. A partnership may be part of an agreement. Be open to new ideas and willing to accept the help that reputable business people extend to you. A negative 29 or 11 brings uncertainties and fears. Friends prove unreliable and disappointments set in. There is trouble making decisions. Offers of help should be looked at carefully. You can use this period to tune in to your true inner powers, bring them out into the light and test them in the world of form. See what your talents are worth by putting them to practical use. If this is done wisely, you stand to profit from such endeavors. Your peers may recognize your efforts by bestowing some honor upon you. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Three of Wands. The wands stand for spiritual power. The figure is facing away from the power. He should reverse his thought and make the power available. The background is barren, showing that much cultivation is needed. His attitude is introspective to the extent that he is unaware of the advantage at hand, yet he keeps firm hold of one wand as security. The ships at sea stand for safe voyage, and water, as always, means subconscious reflection and receptivity. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Second decan Aries. This is the ambitious area of the zodiac, with great drive toward your chosen goal. There is an eagerness and enthusiasm about you that affects others. You emanate a joyous vibration which spreads over people who come within your sphere of influence. This ability assures you a welcome wherever you go. You can be the life of the party in your particular circle. Your attitude could be described as regal. Take care of this cosmic gift and use it carefully. If you allow it to turn to pride and egotism, failure, rather than success, will cause eventual regret. Hold to your highest ideals and enjoy the reward of virtue. 30/3 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: As in all numbers containing the zero, the God power is behind the expression of the first digit. You seek perfection and strive for security. This is an excellent number for handling large assignments because your mind is orderly and systematic. You could be an excellent lawyer or judge because you love system and respect conventional living. You are extremely versatile and clever and could easily excel in science. You have the skill to be a physician or surgeon. You are skillful in the arts as well. You love the theater, plays, writing, music, children and animals. All things that bring enjoyment and fulfillment appeal to you. The rich rewards, material comforts and loving pleasures of a happy home are yours. Because you have material goods in abundance, you may be indifferent to them and turn to religious or philosophical interests. You are idealistic and have an interest in higher consciousness and prophecy. Your sex appeal is a great asset as well as a subtle danger unless handled with a practical mind. You easily occupy the center of the stage because you are charming and agreeable. You will have the abundance that life has to offer and thus the freedom to explore and express the very best within you. You can shine as brilliantly as the brightest star in the heavens and sprinkle a little sparkle into the lives of many people. 30/3 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Work completed, celebration, romance, happy home. The projects that you have been working on reach their fullest expression in this period. If the work has been done well, the rewards will come now in abundance. It is a time for feasting and celebration, a time that has been long awaited. Your fondest hopes and dreams can now be fulfilled. These energies are also concerned with the home and domestic relationships. If a romance is in the wind, it will blossom. Marriage will bring happiness, fulfillment and fertility. Your mind is active. You are clever and capable of wide vision. If you have an artistic bent, the vibrations you are now experiencing will enhance anything you create. An interest in philosophical or metaphysical disciplines will also spark the fires of expression, and if you practice these mind-stimulating arts, you will improve your ability to communicate more effectively. Your mind is in a superior state. The negative side of 30 or 3 may bring a delay or a diminishing of the qualities described above; however, even at its worst, this number seems to offer only good. Great joy, harmony and peace are yours, plus love, romance and the rewards of work well done. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Four of Wands. The planted living wands show perfected work. Things have come to fruition. The red-roofed towers show desires realized. The two figures denote the union of two minds, and the garland of flowers and fruits is raised high on the wands, meaning prize work accomplished and hung aloft in triumph. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Third decan Aries. Advantage always accrues in the third decan, for there is the essence of the combined planetary rulers of the fire trinity. You desire quality in the things you do, buy or collect. Your work or profession will be chosen with the best aim and desire to succeed. A charming personality is one of your cosmic gifts at birth, giving you the magnetism which attracts the opposite sex. This is an asset as well as a danger, according to how you handle yourself. Remember to follow the law of right and justice while creating beauty and harmony in your life. Your potential for success is best expressed by following a conventional course in life. Travel and the study of philosophy are possible outlets for your energy. 31/4 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are a natural fighter; you fight for what you want and what you believe in. You are independent and proud and will work hard to prove your point. This intense competitive spirit often results in strife by arousing competitiveness in others. A rash scattering of energies can deplete your impact, so you must organize and direct your actions efficiently. You have determination, energy and patience. If you learn to be practical, you will be rewarded through business and financial success. You have potential for achievement, and when you learn cooperation and direction, you will accomplish a great deal. You could establish an industry based on knowledge gained through diligent research. You radiate love freely and powerfully; your loving nature illuminates the lives of others. You are generous and will surmount all difficulties because you have a positive attitude. You see each obstacle as an opportunity to prove your mettle. If you are a negative 31 or 4, you remain disorganized and live a life of struggle, dispute, difficulties and material lack. You are nervous and high strung and must learn to adjust harmoniously to others. Legal complications can arise through your rash behavior and pompous attitude. You see the battle of life as a place where you can balance and express your strength by overcoming all obstacles. Your ambition urges you on to achievement, and you eventually reach the top of the mountain, where the exhilarating satisfaction you feel can be experienced only by one who has made the arduous climb. Success is yours. 31/4 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Competition, obstacles, legal dealings, settlements. You must learn to adjust to others now. Your energy is at a peak. A great deal can be accomplished if you direct those energies; otherwise your vitality may be misplaced and cause difficulties and dissension with others. A quarrelsome nature will cause isolation and loneliness. Positive action will open new opportunities and bring about changes for the better in business and financial speculation. Favorable factors combine to bring success, as long as you don’t allow disorganization and dissipation of your precious energy. Legal matters may need attention, and long-pending lawsuits will be settled under this vibration. Contracts and legal agreements should be approached in a calm and orderly manner. Cooperation, practicality and honesty are essential, so do not allow pride and extravagance to spoil the favorable outcome of these dealings. Your finances can improve now if you join with others in an honest, mutual effort to bring about tangible results. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Five of Wands. Five youths are shown wielding their wands in a way that expresses imbalance. This could be called the battle of life in which each one is trying to do something in his own way. If cooperation were the rule and if they joined forces, they could accomplish a great deal. This shows mental restlessness and lack of serenity. The desirability of regaining balance is the lesson depicted in this key. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: First decan Leo. This area of the zodiac indicates a strong will. You have determination and the ability to exert influence for what you believe is right. You are loyal and sincere, and while you desire harmony, you want to achieve it by bending others to your will and ways of action. You are dramatic and could follow a career in the theater, movies or television. You are endowed with a good memory and good vitality. You are forceful and resolute in all you do. 32/5 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: 32 or 5 is the magical number ruling people and nations. It gives protection, and such words as America, Christ, glory, power and circle vibrate to it. You who are under the influence of this number are called the heralds of light; you have the knowledge and are commissioned to send it forth. You are a warrior for the right with a developed sense of duty and responsibility. You bring a message of good tidings for the future. This is a number demanding action. You must be patient, determined and persistent in getting ahead. Your goals must be high. You must be mentally responsible and rely on your intuition. You have the