form, shape and substance. The earth and all that exists as part of it fall into this category. The abundance of the earth comes to certain individuals and not to others. By examining the astrological correspondences we can determine why this happens. Number 4 is the result of an orderly progression, just as earth-ruled Taureans are methodical types. If you make an incorrect assessment of a situation and proceed on that information, then the results will be unsatisfactory. Intelligent evaluation and proper harnessing of your personal energy are necessary for the creation of a successful conclusion. Aries, the point of beginning, is the place we must start if we expect good results. Aries has the initial thought to begin the process of manifestation and the courage to proceed. The earth vibration lends stability to the Aries desire, and the end product is a proper formation of the original thought. People with the number 4 will express these qualities, and astrologically their charts should support their 4 vibration tendencies with an emphasis on Aries and earth signs. 5 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: Freedom is an absolute necessity for you. You cannot be fenced in, and your restless, adventurous nature demands that you travel physically, mentally or spiritually. Because you are an explorer, researcher and investigator at heart, your travels expose you to varied experiences which you immediately digest, dissect and file for future reference. More than others, you learn from experience. You like to probe for information and experiment, and therefore you would be a good detective. Versatile, clever, adaptable and very creative, you can do anything you really want to do. You are extremely efficient, but you dislike monotony and cannot stand routine jobs. You perform well as long as the problem or focus of concentration holds your interest. As a constructive 5, you can go to the heights and the depths without harm. There is no limit to what you can do, if your actions are governed by reason rather than emotion. You have inexhaustible energy which, if not controlled, can turn into outbursts of temper. When you are tired, you rebound quickly, for nothing upsets you for long. Your quick mind and instant reactions cause you to make impulsive decisions on occasion, and you tend to be impatient with people who respond more slowly. You live on nervous energy. Hard manual labor is not your preference, so you drift into ways of making money through your mental agility. Gambling is one means of expression, and you can be very lucky if you speculate wisely but not impulsively. You could also be a mediator, peacemaker and go-between because your mind quickly performs the necessary mental gymnastics and reaches a conclusion. Because change is a natural part of your life, you must learn to make changes in a progressive way. Otherwise you can become unstable and go in too many directions at once, becoming the proverbial jack of all trades, master of none. You are anxious for mental growth, so you take up new studies whenever you get the urge. At these times you may become an avid student and develop intense concentration. There are two paths open to a 5; they are indulgence on the physical plane and progress on the mental plane. As a 5, you can become immersed in the purely physical side of life, saturating your senses with drugs, alcohol, sex, food and comforts. Because you communicate well and are very witty, talkative, enthusiastic and attractive to the opposite sex, you can easily fall into the sensual life, disregarding and wasting your many talents. Negative 5’s can be insincere, untruthful, selfish, irresponsible, extravagant and unpopular. Mental development is the key to the 5, and if you choose this path, the change and variety you surround yourself with will supply answers to all your many questions. Your vast knowledge will impress people, and you will eventually accomplish the supreme task of the 5, that of cleansing the sanctuary or regenerating the body by control of the senses. Because 5 is the number of the ability to develop the powers within, you can become a sage. 5 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Change, communication, sex, new interests, travel. If you are operating under a 5 at this time, you feel restless and excited. Change, adventure and the lure of new vistas beckon you. Travel is very much a part of this cycle, and if you do not travel physically, then you most certainly will mentally. It is time to break out of stagnant conditions and investigate new opportunities. You are attracted to home study courses, adult education, hobbies and new mental interests of all kinds, because this is a period of mental growth and development. You may be faced with situations that require decisions and choices, for 5 indicates two paths. This can be a turning point for you. Because this is a time of continual change in your life you must be flexible and learn to adapt, rather then make rigid plans, for they will probably be altered anyway. You must be free to meet the experience that this period has to offer because the pace is fast and events are sometimes unexpected. You will feel a nervous restless energy with this vibration, so try to avoid accidents caused by carelessness. Instead, channel your energies into constructive action through mental application. This is a perfect time to promote yourself or a product, because you are fluent, expressive and able to communicate easily with others. You will meet new people and make friends easily. Business can be combined with social activities with rewarding results. From experiences and contacts with others, you will extract knowledge which will be filed in your subconscious and will add greater dimension to your understanding. As this is a sensual period, you are sexually magnetic, and love affairs will be fast and intense. An old beau may show up for a last tango. There will be many opportunities for relationships with the opposite sex, one of which could develop into a marriage partnership. There can be many temptations, and you will have to use self-control and make the right decisions. With your strong desire for change, you may very well decide, or be forced, to change jobs or partners, to move, or to alter your lifestyle considerably. At times it may seem that others are forcing a move, but it is your own need for these changes that sets up the situations. Sometimes the need for change is acted out by others, but nevertheless it is caused by your own subconscious energies. Use self-control, channel your restless energies wisely and act decisively. This could very well be a turning point in your life. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 5. The Hierophant. The Hierophant represents our inner teacher, our inner hearing, our intuition. Sages have always said that release from all limitation comes to those who awaken their inner awareness. True inner hearing does not involve spirits, clairvoyance and visions from the astral plane. Rather, true intuition is based upon the number 4 and key 4, the Emperor. When the conscious mind gathers all the facts and feeds them into the subconscious mind, the subconscious acts upon this information and, in a flash of intuition, sends the correct analysis back to the conscious mind. This is true intuition, based upon reason. The Hierophant’s crown is triple: the row of five trefoils represents the five senses; the row of seven trefoils symbolizes the seven centers in the body and the seven original planets; the row of three trefoils stands for the three states of consciousness: the super-conscious, the conscious and the subconscious. His staff has the same symbolic meaning as the knob on the top: both indicate the Source, God. The ornaments attached to his crown fall just behind his ears to emphasize hearing. The crown and staff represent the four worlds: archetypal (knob), creative, formative and material. The pale gray background represents wisdom because gray is a mixture of equal parts of black and white. Thus gray stands for perfect balance which is the practical aspect of wisdom. At the Hierophant’s feet, the crossed keys symbolize the super-conscious, which is the key to heaven, and the subconscious, which is the key to earth (or hell, if one makes it so). The robes of the two kneeling priests represent desire (roses) and purified desire (lilies), both of which must be sublimated to the conscious mind. This card contains ten crosses representing the spiritual numbers 1 to 10, the ten aspects of the Tree of Life and the ten trees in The Empress’s garden. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Mercury (and Taurus). Mercury rules number 5, and Taurus has dominion over key 5, the Hierophant. These two seem unlikely partners; however, consider their attributes. Mercury, the messenger of the gods, represents movement, communication and the intellectual processes. Taurus, the first earth sign, is where we find individuals who act and react with slow deliberation, the epitome of the type who, in a leisurely manner, absorbs pleasure through the five senses. Only through calm deliberation (Mercury in Taurus), by taking in through the senses every piece of information presented in any given situation, can the intellectual process approach its fullest potential. The jigsaw puzzle of information is then handed in pieces to the subconscious, which carefully puts them together. Once completed, the picture is presented to the conscious mind in a flash of insight or intuition. With the help of Taurus, Mercury has gathered the information, communicated it to the subconscious for analysis, and then received the answer back in the conscious mind. Number 5 people are faced with many decisions that require intellectual discernment. They are definitely communicators and travelers, and are attracted to professions such as selling, advertising, promoting and public relations. 6 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are an artistic individual with a fine eye for beauty and symmetry. You find art and music relaxing, rewarding and necessary for your happiness. If you choose a professional career outside the home, the creative arts would be an appropriate field. Your innate analytical ability allows you to go right to the crux of any matter and solve problems easily and logically. Your keen perception and sense of justice would be assets for professional pursuits in law and counseling. Others sense your sagacity, honesty and fairness and seek you out to settle any differences they encounter. You are a responsible person who meets obligations and can be depended upon to follow through on anything you have promised. 6 is also the domestic vibration, indicating that you love your home and children. You may have married young in order to obtain the love you need, which a mate and children can provide. A woman with this number is likely to be a homemaker, very protective and fond of her husband and children. She prefers to be at home rather than to go out and battle the world for a living. One reason for her reluctance to go out into the world is the need for peace and harmony, which is important for all 6’s. A beautiful, artistically decorated home is very important for you. You enjoy decorating and making your surroundings attractive. You like comfort and peace and will not tolerate discord. Entertaining in your own home, if possible, is a joy for you, and you are a charming host or hostess. You really love your friends and are concerned and sympathetic to their needs. If they require help, you generously offer whatever you have. Because of your generosity, kindness, patience and tolerance, you have many friends. Consideration for others is basic to you personally, and you rejoice in other people’s happiness and rewards as your own. You dislike jealousy intensely and cannot understand it when other people react that way. In spite of your great desire for a peaceful existence, you will fight for your beliefs against all opposition. This determination can bring you success and fame in whatever profession you choose. A negative 6 can be very obstinate. You may become a slave to your loved ones, who use you as a doormat. You may bury yourself in your home, becoming a recluse. If you feel you have been denied the love you need so desperately, you will feel sorry for yourself, complain and whine, and indulge in self-pity. You may become discontented and jealous and play the martyr. As a positive 6, you can be a tremendous power for good, bringing joy, love, beauty and a sense of justice into others’ lives, thus establishing yourself as a snug harbor in the cold, destructive storms of life. 6 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Marriage, change in home, redecoration and remodeling, domestic and community responsibilities. The energies of this period center about your home and community. First look for the emphasis in the home, where changes are occurring. People may come into or leave your home, through marriage, birth, death, divorce and other occurrences, or you may change your residence. You may marry now, or develop strong ties of friendship with someone. You feel a greater sense of responsibility toward others which people will sense; and as a result, they turn to you for assistance. They will cry on your shoulder and perhaps ask for financial aid. Some relationships could become burdensome and older people may be a responsibility now. You must accept this situation cheerfully and above all maintain harmony; put aside your own needs for a time. However, don’t accept unnecessary burdens. This vibration stimulates your artistic sense, which you could put to constructive use by redecorating or remodeling your home. Your social awareness is emphasized also, so entertaining in your home should be high on your list of things to do. Putting your house in order also includes your physical house, your body. Have a checkup, then begin a course of exercise to tighten and firm sagging muscles and generally build a healthier body. Remember, don’t take on unnecessary responsibilities, for commitments that you accept now must be seen through to their conclusion. Instead, finish up the old projects that have been on your mind. Think carefully about how to overcome the obstacles that confront you. This can be a loving, rewarding and creative period, if you maintain balance and harmony. Make your home as attractive and warm as possible, and others will bask in its sunny radiance. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 6. The Lovers. The Lovers is an obvious reference to partnership and marriage, the union of opposite but complementary components. The keyword is discrimination. When we discriminate we set apart and separate in order to see the innate differences between two categories. In this manner, we can tell the true from the false. All creatures, including humans, have their own unique odor. This is especially important in the animal kingdom; mating, self-protection and preservation all depend upon a keen sense of smell. People discriminate through the sense of smell, which is therefore, an attribute of key 6. The two human figures represent opposing factors of the one Source, Adam and Eva (her name in the original manuscripts), male and female, positive and negative, and the conscious and subconscious minds. These two specialized manifestations of the one life force must become equalized before attaining unity. The male, or conscious mind, looks to the female, or the subconscious mind, which in turn gazes up at the angel, or the superconscious. Only through this step-by-step process can we reach our source and draw upon its power and inspiration. The tree behind Adam symbolizes the signs of the zodiac. The flames on the left of the tree trunk symbolize the five senses, and those on the right symbolize the body and the original planets. Behind Eva is the Tree of Knowledge. The serpent in the tree, the kundalini force, gives them the power to create. When the kundalini is trapped in the lower center of the body, at or near the base of the spine, only the senses are fulfilled. One must raise the kundalini, or life force, up the spine to the higher centers in the head so that the life force can be expressed on a loftier plane. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Venus (and Gemini). As the ruler of 6, Venus seeks to bring together seemingly opposing factors into harmonious unit. These opposing elements are well represented by Gemini, the twins, which rules the hands, arms, lungs and shoulders; these are all pairs that must operate in unison if the body is to be well coordinated. Also, we use our hands and arms to express our love, by touching and holding. Many people cannot communicate effectively without the use of their hands. Venus gives us the urge to create a peaceful, loving and comfortable environment, surrounded by our family and friends. Number 6 individuals are oriented in this direction. Domestic life is your highest priority, and you find comfort and fulfillment in the home, or in home-related activities. Your artistic sense is developed through the Venusian symmetry, so you may be active in the arts, fashion, or home decorating. 7 AS A PERSONAL VIBRATION: You are a dreamer and a philosopher, and your destiny is your mind. You are attracted to the mystical side of life. Your clairvoyant and psychic abilities are marked, and you will develop the intuitive, introspective side of your personality. Often your psychic hunches foretell future events. If you develop your psychic gift, you can use it for the benefit of others. Realizing that you must leave behind the desires of the material world, you turn to the world of mind and thought. There you learn to enclose yourself behind secret walls, where your creative imagination roams freely. Poetry and music lift your spirits and transport you to other spaces. Your self-imposed periods of isolation make you something of an enigma even to yourself. You are often called a loner, and no one really knows you. Of all the numbers, you could most easily remain single, and in fact, many 7’s live as hermits or recluses. When it comes to carrying out your own ideas, you can be very determined. As a rule, orthodox religious beliefs don’t offer you enough spiritual substance; therefore, you will search for your own individual belief system. However, some 7’s stay with their church and rise to positions of great power. Pythagoras considered 7 to be the most sacred of all numbers, and his students took their vows or obligations by the number 7. In ancient days, a child born under the number 7 was immediately placed in the temple to become a priest or priestess. Today 7’s are found in the higher echelons of the church or as leaders in mystical circles. They gain spiritual realization and become masters. You are a perceptive person who understands human nature. When you meet someone you are not often fooled by their outer personality, but seem to scan their inner motives at once. Sometimes you make people uneasy with your ability to see right through them. Thoughts are words of the mind, and you become close friends with words, since you understand their protective, preserving and influential power. Your cultured, studious nature is enhanced and broadened by change and travel which you love. Your mind eagerly absorbs the information you derive from contact with foreign lands and cultures. You prefer living in the country rather than in the city. In the country you can lead a leisurely life in a dignified and conservative atmosphere. You have a retiring nature and, in that environment, you can experience the periods of quiet contemplation that are necessary for your mental development. The fastidiousness of your dress is unique; you would never wear someone else’s clothes, nor would you let anyone else wear yours. You seem to be innately aware that all people have their own distinct vibrations, which are transmitted to anything they touch. You are methodical, in keeping with the rhythm of the 7 which rules periodicity in nature. Although you have good business ideas, you should not enter into the business field, because you seldom carry out those ideas. Unselfishness, compassion and dedication are qualities you should develop. You have an idea of what the world should be. When the world does not conform to your ideal, you may become frustrated and depressed. Generally, you dislike advice, and others find it hard to convince you of things because your mind is so individualistic. A negative 7 is gloomy. Your disappointment in the outer world drives you to a lonely existence, where you become a hermit or recluse, and shut out the people who cannot live up to your ideals. However, by using your will and by gaining control of your tremendous mental powers, you can be a vehicle for good in a world that desperately needs what you have to offer: a sound creative mind. 7 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Reflection, rest, health, vacations. It is time to rest; God rested on the seventh day, and this is your seventh day. Become quiet and receptive. Think about yourself and your station in life. Analyze your goals, projects and relationships. Spend time by yourself and listen to your inner promptings. Write down your thoughts. You can be inspired by dreams, visions, and intuitions now; therefore, any writings you produce can be creatively moving. Use the energies of this period for mental exercise and discipline. Now you can master technical skills to aid in your profession, or benefit from philosophical and metaphysical disciplines including religion, yoga, transcendental meditation, astrology and numerology. Do not push your financial affairs under a 7. This is not a time to be impulsive or concern yourself with business. It is a time of physical completion and attainment in the cycles because you can see the consequences of your previous efforts. Matters mysteriously complete themselves without any effort on your part. Wait and let the cycle work for you. The number 7 rules the physical body and body functions; therefore, the forces within your body are now active. You must pace yourself wisely, rest and take care of minor problems. Abuse and overexertion can bring on physical maladies and illnesses. These discomforts force you to slow down, so that you will take the time to reflect upon yourself and your purpose in life, which is the most important reason for this cycle. Vacations are always pleasant, and now is a good time to take one. Be careful when signing any documents or legal agreements. Check every word and look for loopholes; when you have thoroughly scrutinized all aspects, sign with confidence. You will not feel the need to socialize at this time; rather, you prefer either to be alone or to be with people of a spiritual nature who complement and uplift your contemplative mood. Do not fight your inner urgings to rest, for that will only bring on physical problems and frustration. Instead, flow with this and look deep within yourself to discover the beautiful facets of your true inner self, the perfect jewel. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 7. The Chariot. The Chariot represents receptivity to the will of the one Source. The keyword attributed to this card is fence or enclosure, and its sense function is speech. Every word we speak is a fence enclosing an idea or thought. An eloquent vocabulary is a powerful tool for protection and preservation, as well as advancement. When we speak we set in motion a vibration that acts upon the ethers, space and akasha. Blavatsky said, “Sound or speech is a tremendous force when directed by occult knowledge.” It is only when we become still, quiet and receptive that we can be victorious. Then the primal force can work through us. Symbolically, the Charioteer is the soul, directing the chariot, the body. Notice that the Charioteer has no reins. It is mentally, through the will, that he directs the sphinxes, the positive and negative senses, to draw the chariot along. The starry canopy overhead indicates that we are recipients of celestial energies. The waxing and waning moons depict time and rhythm, which are stages of mind. This can be seen by their placement on the shoulders, ruled by Gemini, which is the first air sign, symbolizing the mind. The winged globe on the cart represents self-consciousness, elevated by aspiration. The disc with an upright rod through the center depicts the positive and negative forces joined in a working relationship. The square on the Charioteer’s breast indicates an orderly attitude, and his eight-paneled skirt decorated with talismans, represents the soul’s dominion over the material world. The message here is that through control of the senses, and elevation and purification of the desires, by the use of our own free will, we can achieve complete dominion while in the physical body. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Moon (and Cancer). The Moon has four seven-day cycles, and since the earth was created on the sixth day, the Moon, a satellite of the earth, could not have come into manifestation until after the sixth day. With 7 as the end of a physical cycle, we can readily see why the Moon is assigned to this number. Cancer, the crab, rules this key 7. The crab has a fence or shell which protects its soft body from the dangers of the outer world. During a 7 cycle, one is sequestered away from the world in some manner, as the crab, Cancer, withdraws into its protective shell to ponder recent experiences and examine them subconsciously (Moon). Number 7 people are quiet, introspective, analytical and very profound. They are the thinkers of the world, and are usually involved in some scientific, philosophical or metaphysical pursuit. Alone, they can mentally wander the universe, searching for the shell that will enclose their ideas with form and substance. 8 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: Strength, will and effort are the keywords for your nature. You have the ability to channel your energies in order to alter any given situation, so you will ultimately be a leader. The power you exert over the material world is a product of the discipline you expend. You are the big boss type with executive abilities, and you can manage and organize efficiently. With your sound business judgment and knowledge of the value of a dollar, you prefer a big expanding business to a small enterprise. You can be a great success in the financial world. You are shrewd, resourceful and ambitious for power, and failure just spurs you on to greater effort. You do not give up easily. You are a money maker, and will probably become wealthy. Some 8’s make and lose more than one fortune in their lifetimes. You are a down-to-earth realist. A career in finance, banking, brokerage, speculation or investment would be a good outlet for your energies. However, working for material gain alone will not provide the satisfaction you need, and you must learn to share your good fortune with others. You work zealously for the causes you adopt, and you should encourage your philanthropic leanings. Don’t neglect your spiritual side, however. Develop and live by a sound policy, so that if material reverses occur, you will still have a solid basis on which to rebuild. This is where your sense of balance and judgment is most necessary. You are endowed with originality and inspiration and you like to create so you are multi-talented in all areas of material achievement. With these qualities and your diplomacy, persistence and courage, you can accomplish anything. Many outstanding athletes come under the number 8 vibration. They achieve distinction through discipline, effort, will and strength. Also, an athlete needs a fine sense of balance and rhythm, which are qualities of the 8. Your marriage is likely to be based on a need for security rather than love. You want to be proud of your family, home and possessions. If you are a negative 8, you are someone to be feared. You can be a bully, domineering, selfish and ruthless, scheming for your own advancement. You may be a revolutionary, ready to overthrow and disrupt. Upheaval is a way of life with you. An 8 knows no halfway measures. It is either personal limitation or spiritual freedom, splendor or degradation. You must accept responsibility and handle it as well as you can. Use the positive 8 vibrations to create a stable material world in which you are willing to share your fine managerial capabilities and creative talents. Be guided by the philanthropist in you. 8 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Responsibility, money, business, karma. As ye sow, so shall ye reap. This truth will be most evident under an 8. You will receive exactly what you deserve during this karmic period, because it is time to receive payments and pay debts. Since 8 rules the material plane, if you have sown wisely, you can expect recognition and rewards. You may get the raise or promotion you’ve been waiting for, along with more responsibility and pressure. If you’ve been planning a business venture, this is the time to start by building a solid foundation for all your commercial enterprises. Face practical reality and put your finances in the black. Success on the material level is yours, so make your projects financially profitable. Be efficient, organized and concerned with tangible results. You will need energy and ambition to respond to the call you now hear. The inner drive for physical accomplishment is paramount, but you must be cautious. Don’t let the strain of your present undertaking deplete your energies. Those in power will help you if you ask. Because of the karmic implications of this cycle, you may receive an inheritance or legacy. You may have sown seeds of love and concern for someone who, in return, will give you material rewards, money, property or something of value. Whatever you receive is the result of your own past efforts. Be helpful to those who are not operating at your high energy level. In your drive to the