You must detach yourself from materialism, though you may be required to use materialistic means to accomplish your mission. 48/3 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Success, success abandoned, travel. You have reason to celebrate. Many of your goals have been reached, and the rewards are forthcoming. You feel generous and loving; you want to share the good things with those around you. Horizons broaden, and as they do, new relationships form. Perhaps a new love is among them. Travel may be a part of the picture, lending even more excitement to an already festive time. Be aware that what seems most important now may turn out to be unimportant in the future. Know, too, that dissipation of energy can result in unstable conditions. If you find the goals you have attained bring little satisfaction, you should seek to operate from a higher level. Use your material gains to alleviate the sufferings of others. Some experience during this cycle may be the catalyst that turns your materialistic mind toward the spiritual and humanitarian realm. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Eight of Cups. There are eight full cups representing the three parts of the consciousness and the five senses, all under control (because the cups are upright). Yet the lone figure is leaving all that behind and walking toward the dark mountain of the unknown. Penetrating the mysteries hidden in the mountain will bring the wisdom being sought. The robe is red to signify desire for further knowledge. Under the guidance of the Sun and Moon (eclipse symbol), he is responding to his inner urge for something higher. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: First decan Pisces. Sometimes you worry over things that never happen and expend unnecessary energy in doing so. Develop a philosophy of faith in yourself and in the future. You are very sympathetic toward animals; you will adopt a stray cat or dog who seems unfed and unwanted. This comes from your deep desire to help those who suffer. This same understanding includes people, of course. You are hospitable and generous. You have the gift of wisdom which makes you kind and just toward others. Poets, musicians and scientists are born in this area of the zodiac. The poet Longfellow, the pianist-composer Chopin and the scientist Copernicus were born in this decan. 49/4 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are a person of many gifts; executive ability, integrity, intuition and a sense of justice, to name just a few. You can apply these attributes to practical business enterprises and achieve excellent results. You are diplomatic in your relationship with others, patient and honest in conducting your affairs. You also have a sense of when to act and when to wait, an essential ingredient of success. You have emotional control in both business and personal matters. Material success, physical well-being and security go with this vibration. Material happiness and contentment are yours. You love to display the good life you have attained. Your home will reflect this in the form of fine furnishings and full cupboards. This is the result of the pride and satisfaction you feel in your achievements. You enjoy good health and a hearty appetite. You are an example for others to follow by depicting what hard work and perseverance can ultimately bestow upon the achiever. If you are a dreamy 49 or 4, you develop a lot of theories that are seldom carried out. This is because success seems to come too easily. Drive does not seem necessary, and inertia prevents you from attaining all that you are capable of. You are more intent on personal satisfaction than achievement, and you can become sated by your own desires. Insincerity creeps in, and your ego inflates along with your body, as a result of a gluttonous approach to life. Ill health can result. However, the tendency under this vibration is toward a balance between the mind and emotions. This leads you onward and upward, in both mental and spiritual development. 49/4 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Good health, satisfaction, marriage to a wealthy individual. This is an excellent cycle for business matters, as long as you maintain an honest, persevering attitude. Through steady application, the coffers are filled, and you feel a sense of satisfaction and physical accomplishment at a job well done. Outer comfort lends inner tranquility, a healing balm for any ailment. Your optimistic, serene attitude will bring about improvements in health. You may put on weight; therefore, be selective of the type and amount of food you eat. Marriage here will usually involve wealth and may be for security instead of, or along with, love. The home will be well supplied with food and material comforts. Be careful not to overindulge in food or drink. Examine your pursuits and desires now. Will they lead to freedom from anxiety, poverty and insecurities or just replace one set of restrictions with another? TAROT SYMBOLISM: Nine of Cups. The seated figure is the picture of physical and emotional well-being. His cups are full and he is protected by the blue curtain of the creative mind. A balance of mind and emotions always brings material success and inner satisfaction. This is the card of fulfilled hopes and wishes. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Second decan Pisces. This is a sensitive and affectionate decan. You are unusually fond of your home and family. You are tenacious in your attachments and may have to learn to give others the same kind of freedom you want for yourself. Your psychic nature is well developed. Your intuitions are keen and helpful as you believe more and more in yourself. You work better and live more happily when practical, emotional balance is gained; otherwise you may become hypersensitive. Use your fine strength of character wisely. 50/5 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: This is the vibration of lasting success and happiness. It bestows a life surrounded by friends and affection. You are romantic and intensely emotional. You are devoted to your family, and you seek a mate who epitomizes the perfect love. Personal magnetism makes you attractive to the opposite sex, so there should be plenty of candidates to choose from. Your life will be one of activity and movement. You are a socializer who enjoys conversation and people. Public life may draw you. There you can use your eloquence in lecturing and public speaking for the pursuit of social betterment. You could also succeed in literature and science. You are especially good in mathematics and could work at accounting or analysis, professions that require your keen perception. You are both creative and imaginative. Your instinctive understanding of others makes them seek your counsel. Leadership comes naturally, and your energies find constructive outlets. With all your possibilities for achievement, you nevertheless prefer beauty and pleasure to wealth and fame. Your contentment comes from love of family and friends. You enjoy being able to move freely in, and communicate with, the world around you. All numbers containing 0 bestow divine protection, and your sense of security shows in your relaxed and confident personality. A negative use of these energies brings waste, loss of or betrayal by friends, and family troubles. You will seek freedom from all responsibilities and become enslaved by this very need. 50/5 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Love, family ties, happy changes. This is an extremely active period of socializing with family and friends. Happiness and contentment abound. A special person may enter your life, one who represents your ideal image of a perfect mate. The love relationship that ensues will bring lasting enjoyment. Many happy changes occur now. You may move into a new environment which promises greater fulfillment, or you may alter the present situation to your benefit. You may receive honors and gifts. They are the rewards of past efforts, for which you could also receive public recognition. Conversations, messages, letters and meetings bring good news and promising opportunities. However, the overall energies of this period encourage you to relax, take a trip, and enjoy the fellowship of good friends and the pleasures of close family ties. A negative use of these same energies can cause family dissension and difficulty with friends. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Ten of Cups. Ten full, upright cups are elevated in the heavens. They are the rainbow of happiness fulfilled. The man and woman embrace, exalting the elevation of emotional life to a high state of consciousness. The children dance happily under the protective rainbow of promise. All good things of earth are pictured: lush green growth, water and the house, which denote permanence of achievement. Here, love has been raised to the plane of compassion. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Third decan Pisces. The natives of this last Piscean cycle are endowed with a psychic and intuitive nature. The practical side needs developing. Learn to use logical thinking with your intuition to bring about wise conclusions. Learn not to be easily led by stronger and more aggressive natures. You are really more likely to be right if you follow what intuition tells you. Learn to interpret its signals. This is the final cycle of the solar year. It contains strong vibrations for happiness if you make positive choices and form constructive habits for progressive action toward your spiritual goal. FOUR: THE SWORDS. 51/6 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You apply the spirit of a warrior to whatever cause you choose. Your leadership ability and your desire to uphold truth and justice qualify you for such a profession as the law, government or the military. You are intelligent and perceptive; you are able to make sound judgments, based on the facts, balanced with mercy. You adhere to the teachings of the past. You exercise firm authority that serves you well in friendships, but can often prolong enmities. You could be successful in the sciences such as chemistry or medicine. You probably lean toward professions in the law or the military, where life and death decisions are commonplace and where you can exercise your wisdom and sense of balance. You have an active mind, full of ideas which could bring you abundant wealth. Because of your abilities, you will advance in any under taking. You are cautious, yet you seem to walk through life untroubled, even in the midst of turmoil. You keep on smiling and talking cheerfully while subduing your inner fears; however, you are ever alert and observant and always prepared for all possibilities. There is a remote possibility of assassination threats if you are in prominent public office. An imbalance in this vibration can make you overly stem or cruel. Your harsh actions many times result in legal difficulties. You create enemies in your relentless drive for power; these rivals resent your injustices and stand ever ready to take revenge. 51/6 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Legal dealings, justice, perception, authority. During this cycle, disagreements and hostilities can result in lawsuits or legal dealings of some kind. You must be alert and stand guard against the harsh actions of rivals. However, injustices will be corrected. The law of balance will be rule. True and false will be separated. Maintain a cool, impartial attitude. Weigh all cases fairly to uphold the law. Your mind is keen, perceptive and extremely active now. Rely on it now to find alternative procedures for handling your affairs. Keep a positive outlook, a cheerful frame of mind and a vigilant attitude. You are the warrior fighting for the right; you will overcome all rivals. The challenging ideas that arise within can bring you the success and authority you desire. Listen carefully and follow your intuition. TAROT SYMBOLISM: King of Swords. A seated figure holds the upraised sword of activity, keen perception and discrimination. The screen behind the throne displays the butterfly, symbol of recurring life and circumstances. The waxing and the waning moons symbolize ever-changing ideas and opinions. The sword divides the false ideas from the true. The king sees the crux of the matter, and with swift justice sets matters right. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: First decan Libra. You are intelligent and perceptive. You have the ability to judge both sides and to make keen assessments. You are likely to advance in any undertaking; you are untroubled in the midst of turmoil, for you keep smiling and talking cheerfully. You balance your intelligence with mercy; you are truly a warrior fighting for right and justice. 52/7 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are high minded, noble and humanitarian, uncontaminated by the sordid side of life. You stand alone because your wisdom places you above the multitudes. Supported by the experiences of the past, you face the uncertainties of the future with confidence. Changing events and conditions do not dim your faith; you maintain your poise even under occasional emotional stress. You can always draw from your power reserve. Most likely you are well-educated. Your liberal ideas allow your quick, perceptive mind to understand things beyond the ordinary person’s ability to comprehend. This quality sets you apart, and you may decide to close the door to the material world and live a solitary existence in the spiritual realm. Because of these factors, this vibration is known as one of separation, sterility and widowhood. You are kind, patient and courageous. You try to live a well-balanced life. You finish whatever tasks you begin. However, you are more interested in the philosophical and spiritual than the material. You love nature and prefer to live in the country. If you express the negative side, you are narrow-minded and mean. Your jealousy drives others away, assuring that you will have a solitary life. Gossip, harsh words and a bigoted attitude further alienate even the most understanding friends. You seem determined to be alone, although the drive to be alone may be entirely unconscious. 52/7 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Change, separation, meditation. Changing conditions may separate you temporarily from familiar lifestyle patterns and you may experience a period of solitude in which you feel lonely and isolated. This is necessary to stimulate thoughts and ideas related to the spiritual world. You must learn to strike a balance between what appears to be real and what is real. In this manner you discover what has real value for you. Trips into the country or to the seashore are therapeutic for you now. Take along a few books on philosophy and religion and allow your mind to travel as well. Remember that the separations during this cycle are part of the everchanging rhythm of life, and changes bring new opportunities and challenges. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Queen of Swords. The queen sits on a throne decorated with butterflies, symbols of incarnation and reincarnation. She holds the active sword raised to discriminate between true and false. Her left hand is extended toward the unknown future, but she is ready to face whatever comes. She knows she has experience as her foundation, and she can draw upon that. Although the Sun is obscured by clouds, denoting that more is to be revealed, she is confident of the future. The waxing and waning moons on her throne show changing conditions. She leans on divine protection, symbolized by cherubs on the throne. Her throne is set high where the air is pure and uncontaminated by the sordid side of life. The single bird overhead indicates the solitude she has chosen because her wisdom sets her apart. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Second decan Libra. Venus and Uranus hold sway in the second decan of Libra. They produce a high-minded humanitarian. You lean to the spiritual and prefer the quiet atmosphere of the country where your mind can meditate without the distraction of city noises. You are intelligent, quiet and introspective. Your great wisdom may set you apart from the common crowd. 53/8 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You know that you have a lot to accomplish and no effort is too great, no obstacle too difficult. You like authority and know how to assert it; however, your assertiveness may be construed as tyrannical. Because your head rules your heart, you may seem set and severe, but you rule with a pure heart and chivalrous motives. Protection and defense against danger are your main concerns. Rather than sit back and wait, you prefer to be the aggressor. You make progress through your skill and ability to lead. Your bravery in the face of danger would make you a fine military leader. You could also excel in law as a criminal lawyer or judge. You have the necessary intellectual and communicative skills to sway others. With your strength and fine sense of timing, you could achieve professional status in any of the aggressive contact sports. You have the ability to separate fact from fiction; no detail escapes your notice. Your fine power of discrimination would make you an excellent detective. If you are a negative 53 or 8, you always seem ready for a fight. Your cockiness alienates others, and you seem to leave destruction in your wake. Chivalry degenerates into extravagance, and you become incapable of dealing with the situations that arise in your life. 53/8 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Sudden events, courage, discrimination. Someone or something is about to catapult into, or out of, your life. The situation is intense. You should play the aggressor and take things into your own hands. Keep your emotions under the command of reason and act justly. Challenging situations arise suddenly. You will need strength, courage and perseverance to handle them. Business, finance and the law may be involved. Deal wisely with whatever you encounter, and use reason to discriminate among the facts presented. Then you will overcome all problems and maintain, or achieve, a position of authority. During this period troubles come and go. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Knight of Swords. This Knight has a lot to accomplish during the autumn season. He rides far and fast. Riding against the wind shows that no effort is too great and no obstacle too severe for him to overcome. His raised sword shows him the true path by dividing the true from the false. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Autumn (Libra, Scorpio, Sagittarius). During the fall, people prepare for the long winter by storing supplies. Oversight can mean disaster. Because you have an eye for detail you would make a good detective. You are determined and may at times seem severe, but you must be able to maintain a balance and discriminate between the useful and the useless. You are courageous and have leadership potential. 54/9 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are witty, intelligent and eloquent. Those gifts assure you the respect of your peers. You have a keen practical and perceptive mind. You pursue your education, as you have a natural tendency to seek answers. You can adjust mentally to the demands of the environment. These talents make you a prime candidate for government work or the diplomatic services. You are always vigilant and seem prepared for any possibilities. Your subtle approach to difficulties belies your ability to arrive at swift, just conclusions. You are dedicated to the institutions and laws of the past, and you prefer to use intellectual processes rather than physical force to find solutions. Your restless nature is something for you to overcome. You are amiable, humanitarian and conventional in your ways. These qualities help you deal successfully with your problems. You desire peace and reject the frills of life. You enjoy good health and a long, fulfilling life. If you are a negative 54 or 9, you are cunning and sly. You use your fine intellect to outwit others. You scatter your energies and deplete your resources, which brings on health problems. But your scheming will be revealed, and you will be exposed for what you are. 54/9 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Vigilance, messages, secrets. Maintain a vigilant attitude during this cycle. Keep your imagination under control. You are unaware of some elements in certain situations, but they will be revealed to you. Adhere to your proper execution of justice, and those who work against you will be defeated. You must mentally adjust to unforeseen events which arise now. Look for the truth beneath superficial appearances, so that you will be prepared when the truth emerges. You may receive news or messages that will demand your energy. Successful conclusions can be reached if you keep your emotions under control. Others may be observing your actions during this cycle to see how you handle yourself. If they are enemies they wait for a vulnerable moment; if friends, they wait to see how you perform. Your actions can earn you a position of authority and respect. Illness is an enemy, so take care of your body. Eat well and allow enough time for rest. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Page of Swords. This Page is without frills or decorations. He has a practical mind which is at work revealing the truth. Truth is somewhat hidden behind the clouds in the background, but the air element, symbolized by the birds as roving thoughts, will aid him in attaining his goal. However, investigation and mental application are required. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Third decan Libra. This decan includes the rulers of all the air signs, Venus, Uranus and Mercury. A restless nature and an amiable disposition are found here. You are witty, intelligent, very sociable and humanitarian. You have a natural ability to communicate and you sway others with your words. You are a natural scholar, and will most likely gain the respect of your colleagues. You will live a long and healthy life. 55/1 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are perceptive and therefore equipped mentally to explore any project, idea or concept. You have the ability to reason and the talent to write. As a dominating leader you reflect honest, high-minded and ethical ideals which inspire others to follow you. You are a pioneer, exuberant and energetic. You react intensely and are capable of extremes in all endeavors and pursuits. You are a champion of right and seek swift justice to maintain balance. You believe in law and order and try to remain poised between mercy and severity. This number dominates religion and morals, and you may be drawn toward the law or the ministry where you can most adequately express your keen sense of justice and mercy. You can ferret out information that others would overlook. You are a natural researcher, and would make an excellent librarian. Words fascinate you, and writing is another area in which you can fulfill your basic need to explore and reveal the secrets of life. Your writings would have tangible values for others. Through your love of communication you will meet many different types of individuals in your lifetime. Many children may grace your home, in keeping with your productive nature. Your children will benefit from your principles and may achieve distinction in their given fields. Negatively, your keen ability to make fine distinctions deteriorates into a confused and chaotic lifestyle. Erratic actions create obstacles, alienate friends and produce a sterile, lonely environment. A stem attitude results. 55/1 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Honor, birth, clarity. You may be honored now for some achievement in which you have expressed intellectual and leadership skills. It is the culminating triumph, the reward for prolonged endeavor. Since this is a period of culminations, separations are a possibility. An affair may end and people may leave your circle, thus altering your environment in some manner. This suggests that you are through with the elements of that relationship. Religious and legal considerations may arise here. This vibration can also bring the birth of a very special child who will in some way bring light and inspiration to the world. The triumphs of this period may set you off on a new journey that will require your energy and integrity. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Ace of Swords. The Hand of God holds the upraised sword of discrimination. The golden crown studded with rubies shows the honor that comes to those who use their mental powers wisely. The holly branch hanging from the crown represents the Christmas season and therefore birth. The palm branch depicts Easter and the resurrection. The six falling yods, symbolic of the developing sixth sense, are the divine sparks that continually fall into incarnation, in a never-ending cycle of birth and resurrection. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: The element air (Gemini, Libra, Aquarius). As a representative of the element air, you are mentally equipped to conquer any field you choose. Your mind is your greatest weapon and tool. It will eventually place you in positions where you must maintain balance in dispensing justice. You are a pioneer in the realm of thoughts, and others will look to you for ideas. 56/11 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: 56 or 11 is a master number and thus requires more effort on your part. There is nervous energy under this vibration. Through self control you can achieve and maintain a balance between your emotions and your intellect. You are perceptive and discriminating and do not judge by appearances alone. You make impartial decisions based on your intuition which is founded on reason. You may gain fame and fortune through the proper use of these talents. You are a natural peacemaker, and you like to create happy conditions around you. Strife is distasteful to you, and you are able to establish harmonious conditions in the midst of changing and unexpected situations. You are poised, modest and agreeable. You enjoy being popular so you develop one of your best qualities, which is charm. You are flexible and can yield to the opinions of others. You are affectionate and loyal to your family, sympathetic and responsive to the troubles of those around you. Military personnel and members of the government may be among your circle of friends. Music appeals to your finely attuned sense of rhythm. You are balanced and make an effort to stay that way. Music is a reminder of that balance. You will be successful in business. You sense what the public wants and needs, and you know how to supply it. If you express the negative, these fine qualities are reversed and will cause indecisiveness. You will be unable to choose wisely. Associates will prove untrustworthy and trouble will result. You will live an unproductive life. 56/11 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Balance, decisions, cooperation. This is a master number cycle. It demands more from you, but it offers greater rewards in return. Balance and self-control are necessary during this period of nervous energy. You must remain impartial. Do not base decisions and judgments on appearances. A favorable financial outcome may hinge on your ability to perceive the situation as it really is. You are attuned to the needs of others. You can play the role of peacemaker, settling disagreements at work and trouble in the family. As you project affection and understanding, you create harmony and a sense of well-being. You should be willing to help those in need, because, during this cycle, you have the insight to bring about settlements that are agreeable to all. Refusal to exercise these qualities results in indecision and stalemates. Matters go wrong because of a lack of direction which you could now supply. Be aware of the people you deal with. Some will not be honest with you. This will require more understanding and impartiality on your part. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Two of Swords. The figure is dressed in white to denote spiritual purity. Her hair is black (lack of light) and it is bound by the white band of wisdom. Her position is one of perfect balance. The Moon stands for the subconscious, and the rocks symbolize that which is stable, permanent or decided upon by the conscious mind. The figure is sitting on a cube of stone which shows a firm foundation for her convictions. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: First decan Libra. Balance and justice are keywords for this decan. You have clear vision and keen perception. You are artistic, graceful and congenial. You prefer mental work to physical labor. You are fastidious because cleanliness is important to you. You avoid any career that necessitates messiness or dirty hands. You like variety and may not stay long in one job. You need to learn perseverance. You are usually optimistic and pleasant. You are a peacemaker and will go all out to avoid stress and strife. 57/3 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: The positive expression of this vibration results in a charitable nature, with ability to understand others and help them with their problems. If the vibration is negative, you may experience disappointment and heartache. Do not allow yourself to indulge in self-pity; rather, develop your sense of humor. This is often an outlet for the more intense emotions that can be part of your life. You are dependable and serious and possess strength and courage in the face of adversity. Your happiness reflects your integrity in equal measure. You feel a conflict between reason and emotions; therefore, you should cultivate the art of logic to avoid being carried away by impulse. You have the artistic ability to express your fluctuating moods. You can portray them in pantomime or on the stage. Acting and the theater provide fine outlets for your creative talents. You may prefer to work behind the scenes, as a playwright for instance, and give support to those who enjoy the limelight more than you. Some of the most interesting people under this vibration are those you may never hear of, because they have done their greatest work in the background. You are independent and progressive, with humanitarian ideals. Become a strong force for good in the world, and you will feel that your sojourn on earth has been meaningful and well spent. Yours is the number of the understanding heart, although it may have been gained through suffering. You mature through your experiences. As a negative 57 or 3, you suffer losses and experience confusion. You become depressed and bitter and reject the extended hands of friendship because you fear being hurt. Separation and loneliness result. 57/3 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Separation, delay, expression, growth. Maintain a logical approach