the the signs of likeinconsistencies. And also, if you'redoing multiple personalities, um keeptrack of those things.>> Have a habit of note-taking uh becauseyou don't want to combine two differentpersonas into one. All these smallthings do matter. But even when you'reon your game and you remember your sockpuppet identity and you're you're livingit, it still takes a while. And youmight just be waiting for that next linkthat takes you to the more real formwhere the real guys are. Or it mighteven be a Telegram link, a privateTelegram chat. A lot of people think yougo to the dark web and boom, you're justgoing to hit that site where all thecriminals are hanging out. No. So manydark websites, dark web websites havebeen taken down. Marketplace has beenremoved. They don't make it easy to findthem. Yet, they do have to advertise thefact that they are around because that'show they get customers. So, they arediscoverable, but they're careful andyou have to be patient. I honestly can'tbelieve all that we just described is areal job. If you do this job, commentbelow. And if you want to do this job,comment below. You're probablywondering, Chuck, why are you showing usthis? Like, this is a a way to searchthe dark web. It's dangerous. I'mshowing it to you because of thisreason. Actually, two reasons. One,education. I want you to be able toresearch security threats like a threatresearcher would so you can defendagainst them. Education and knowledgeabout the threats we face is how wedefeat them. And second, it's just areally awesome tool. Like you can try tosearch for your own data. See if you areon the dark web. Put in your emailaddress, maybe your name. Just some funthings to try. A dark web researchergave me his AI tool and I just gave itto you. Think about that. You now havethe ability to use the same tools a realthreat researcher has on the dark weband that just sounds awesome and scary.So be careful. Okay, so most of the darkweb is fake. We know that now. Oh, bythe way, that secret hotel suite meet upI had with the Perve in in Vegas atduring Defcon. That was a wholeinterview. And what you saw here wasjust a peak behind the curtain. If youwant to see that full thing, I've got avideo right here. We talked about somestuff like ransomware as a service andhow threat actors get caught with dumbInstagram mistakes. It's pretty nuts.You don't want to miss that. So listenup. Here is your homework. Test out thetool. Search for your own email address.Search for your name. see what's outthere. Get a feel for what it feels liketo be a threat researcher. Comment belowwhat you find. I mean, only the safestuff. That's all I got. I'll catch youguys next time. Hey, you made it to theend of the video. You may have noticedthat at the end of my videos, I'mstarting to pray for you. I'm a man offaith and a lot of the things I do hereon YouTube, they're fueled by that. Infact, all of it. Every video I makehere, I hope is going to somehow improveyour life by either getting you excitedabout it, learning a new skill that youcan add to your resume, and it's Jesusthat drives me in this. Now, I totallyunderstand that my followers are goingto have a bunch of different beliefs,but if you'll allow me, I would love tojust pray for you and your life and whatyou're doing. And that's it. So, realquick, I know it's going to be kind ofweird. You got this YouTuber guy prayingfor you. Embrace the weirdness. Here wego. God, I ask in your name that youbless this person behind the screenwho's watching this video right now. Um,I ask in your name that you would letthem take the content of this video andfirst not do anything bad with it, butalso let it make them excited for it andgive them some amazing skills. Unlocknew things for them, unlock new jobopportunities. Bless their careers. God,I ask that this will make them go downrabbit holes to find amazing things toplay with and tools to play with andskills to learn that will make theirresume awesome and and help them landthat that next job or help them to landthat next raise or or um get that nextpromotiongo before them and make their pathstraight, Lord. And I ask that you justbless their families. Let their familiesbe blessed. I know this is the big whyfor many of them as to why they're doingall this all this studying and learning.Lord, bless their families and let thembe blessed by their study and their hardwork. And Lord, ultimately, I pray theyfind their satisfactionand their identity in you and that theywill know you one day. I ask this inyour name, Jesus. Amen. Hey, I reallyappreciate you letting me pray for youand um that's it. I'll catch you guysnext time.