yourmind blown. This is pretty crazy. I'mgoing to go full screen on this. We'regoing to tell it to brainstorm threedistinct tonal strategic approaches. Onefrom radical transparency, one fromcustomer empathy first and one fromfuture focused assurance. Evaluate eachbranch, synthesize them, and then findthe golden path. Let's go.And look at that. It's going to leadwith a branch B, empathy, add in sometransparency, anchor with future focus.That's a pretty stinking good email. Yougot to try that. It's so fun. Let's geteven crazier. The community calls thisone the playoff method. Researchers callit adversarial validation. That's a hardword to say, phrase. I call it battle ofthe bots. Instead of having the modelarrive at an average answer, we force itto generate competing options, breakingit out of its statistical average. So,let me show you what this looks like.And it's just it's insane. I love it somuch. With this, we're generating athree round competition with threedistinct personas. We got the engineer,the PR crisis manager, the angrycustomer. Round one, the engineer andthe PR crisis manager write their ownversion of the apology email. The angrycustomer reads both drafts and brutallycritiques them. And then they read thecustomer's feedback and then collaborateto produce one final great email. Isn'tthat kind of crazy? Like, can we reallymake AI be that scatterbrain orschizophrenic? Like, that's kind ofcool. Yeah, let's try it out. Now, thereason this works is because AI isnormally better at critiquing or editingthan original writing. So, asking it todo this is actually tapping into itssuperpower. Look at it roasting theengineers draft. [laughter]You're slicker. I'll give you that.Look at this. Yikes. Both emails areprofessionally produced garbage. Oh no.[laughter]That was actually really good. Oh mygosh. Look at the ter turnin results.That's so cool. AI is so fun.Now, I've shown you the foundations.I've shown you how to prompt. I've shownyou some really fun techniques, butthere's one meta skill I alluded to inthe beginning of this video that isbetter than them all. It also isrequired for them all if you want tobecome a really good prompter and learnhow to really use AI. And that's kind oflike the skill to learn right now. Iknow my audience is 50/50. It's like AIis great. AI sucks. I get it, guys. ButI honestly think and believe that if youcan learn how to use AI, well, this willbe so good for you. Now, I had an issuethis week, actually. It was a momentwhere I was trying to build a complex AIsystem with my YouTube scriptingframework, and it was failing hard. Igot so frustrated. I was essentiallyyelling at Claude like I yell at ChadGBT. So I texted Daniel Mesler, one ofthe experts. He's a creator of Fabric,probably the best prompt engineer Iknow. Just tell you how frustrated Iwas. I essentially said, "How do you dowhat you do? I'm about to throw mycomputer out the window." And he told methis. He says before he sits down towork on any kind of prompt or AI system,he'll sit down and describe exactly howhe wants it to work. And he'll sit thereand red team it, meaning he'll come atit from different angles and try to makesure it's robust. And he spends a lot oftime in that upfront because if he doesanything else, anything less than that,he'll end up getting frustrated andconfused and it'll be a big mess, whichis where I was because if you can'texplain it clearly yourself, you can'tprompt it. And that's the key. That'sthe skill. I look back at my garbageprompts and they were messy because mythinking was messy. And that's when Irealized something. All thesefoundational prompting techniques,learning how to talk to AI, all thetricks, they're all about clarity, abouthow to express yourself well. Thepersona forces you to say, who isanswering this? Where's the source ofknowledge coming from? What's theperspective? You have to think aboutthat. Context forces us to say, "Whatare the facts? What does it need toknow?" State of thought forces us tothink about how the logic will flow. Howwould we do it? How would we describethis process to someone else? Few shotforces us to say, "This is what goodlooks like." Repeat that. The techniqueswe're seeing here aren't magic tricks.Although you can try and use them thatway, but eventually you're it's going tofail because you have to know how it'sworking, which boils down to how are youthinking? You have to get clear. Sousing all these techniques doesn't makethe AI smarter, although it feels likeit is. All that's happening here is yougot clearer. Daniel Mesler said this.And then of course, Joseph Faker, theycall him the prompt father, I'm notkidding, said this about skill issues.>> Treat everything as like a personalskill issue. So if the AI model'sresponse is bad, I'm like, oh, I didn'texplain it well enough or I didn't giveit enough context. And Eric Pope, whohas helped the Network Chuck Academyteam do some amazing things, says this,>> "The more specific you could get atlater stages, the better results you'llget.">> By the way, the new CCNA on the NetworkChuck Academy is incredible. It's thebest CCNA I've ever seen. You got to gocheck it out. And yes, it is finishedand complete. Link below. So, that's themeta skill. Clarity of thought. Whenyou're struggling with AI, it's not theAI's fault. It's not a promptingproblem. is that you don't really yetknow how to think clearly. The AI canonly be as clear as you are. So, thenext time you're getting frustrated withAI and you're tempted to yell at ChadGBT, look in the mirror. It's you. It'sa skill issue. You're not explainingyourself. So, stop. Get a notebook out.Get a pen or just open up a blank noteand try to describe what you want to do,what you're wanting to accomplish. Thinkfirst, prompt second. And that's kind ofwhat I love about AI, which is weird formany people are using AI like a crutchand their skills are slowly starting toatrophy. But if you're really trying toget good at AI, your the way you think,the way you have to design and thinkabout systems and and and view theworld, that ability is going to increaseif you embrace this. And that's thesuperpower. That's the skill right nowto learn knowing how to describe asystem and describe a problem. And onceyou figure out that good prompt, savethat sucker. Get a prompt library.That's what the Google courserecommends. Also, my friend DanielMesler, the expert, he created Fabric,which essentially is a program just fullof amazing prompts. It's just a librarythat you can use out of the box orcreate your own. Now, the meta metaskill is to use a prompt enhancer promptto enhance your prompts for betterprompts.Did you get lost on that one? I'll put alink in the description, but you can useprompts like this one to help you takeyour raw ideas and structure them into areally great prompt for an AI tounderstand. I know a lot of people dothat. I do that. But before I do thatthough, I always make sure or I'm tryingto anyway, my ideas are clear and whatI'm describing makes sense to me. And Itry to imagine like if I were to handthis to a human and say, "Is this enoughinformation for you to do this thing?"Then I know an AI can probably do it,too. Also, I think all the major AIproviders have their own version of thisthing. I know anthropic has their ownprompt improver, whatever they call it.Now, I actually have to go because I gota thing with my family and they're goingto get mad at me if I don't hurry up.That's why my phone was blowing upearlier. So, that's the video. Go buildsomething insane. And if you have anamazing prompt that does some crazystuff, I would love to know it. Uh, letme know below or send me an email orsomething. That's it. I'll catch youguys next time.Hey, you're still here. Uh, recently atthe end of my videos, I like to pray foryou, my audience. If praying is not yourthing, that's totally cool. If you'renot sure, stick around. I want to do itreal quick and then we can go about ourday. God, I thank you for the personwatching this video. I thank you that uhthey are hungry for tech and thatthey're excited and that they arebuilding their career right now. I askthat you encourage them in that that yougive them great favor that you go beforethem and make their path straight. Umthey may be dealing right now with justa bit of maybe just strugglingstruggling to stay motivated or excitedor uh maybe dealing with fear about thefuture and what AI is doing. I pray youremove that fear, remove that anxiety,and give them the wisdom to make thebest choices, the best next steps to umadd knowledge to their care uh theirtheir their jobs and their career. Ipray you bless their careers, Lord. Thatyou would um help them to show up and begood, to be that person that isdependable, that's valuable and seen,and that they their careers wouldexplode. God, give them clarity in allthis. And I pray that the tools they'relearning in this video will be somethingthey can make concrete to change theirlives or change their their businessesor careers. Bless them, God. Bless theirfamilies. I ask this in your name,Jesus. Amen. That's it, guys. Talk toyou later.