be one of constant change. As soon as a situation seems settled and quiet, a new set of circumstances will arise to replace the old. Constant renewal keeps you on your toes and impresses on you the transitory nature of earthly things. The instability of your material world strengthens the bond between you and the invisible world. Because of this you need a secure home and secure relationships therein, for you realize that these bonds are true and lasting. You are not a leader in the ordinary sense of the word, but you do carry on for others. You take on their problems and bravely bear burdens with little complaint. Your idealism knows no bounds, and you can transform the most desperately lost cause into a worthwhile venture through your profound philosophy and understanding of the real values in life. Your limitless creative powers discover fertile soil where others see only a wasteland. You can take a dying business and, with creative ideas, organized talents and hard work, change it into a financially profitable venture. You can salvage a relationship that seems about to break and cement it more strongly than it was. Transformation is your keyword, whether it be in business, relationships or social causes. Your psychic abilities are marked, and you can see right through people and situations. It is not easy to fool you, and your perceptive analytical powers make you a formidable opponent. If you are a negative 13, you dissipate your creativity in pursuit of transitory desires. Overindulgence in drink, drugs, unsavory relationships and destructive actions can make your life and the lives of those around you a complete disaster. Your bad temper and rash actions hurt others and can tear down those structures that you attempt to build. Stagnation and inertia set in and turn you into a revolutionary. But the change you bring about is destructive rather than regenerative. You are in a state of spiritual amnesia. You above all others have the ability to bring about peaceful changes that will improve the living standards of the world. You can take what most people would throw away, rework it and produce a useful and necessary product. This gives tangible proof of the existence and immortality of the soul, whose presence you have never doubted. 13/4 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Change, release, transformation. The number 13 is associated with suspicion and misconceptions. For an understanding of this, read the 1st paragraph of 13/4 as a personal number. Then turn back here to see how 13/4 relates to you as a temporary vibration. Under a 13 you can expect the changes that will bring an end to conditions that no longer serve a useful purpose in your evolutionary scheme. Any rigid thought patterns must be altered and crystalized ideas must be shattered. Only through the death of present circumstance can you be released; freed to open the door for progress. Old ideas must be swept away to make room for new and better ones. Be prepared to meet fresh ideas, new people and stimulating conditions. A change of plans, a new location and different people open the birth channel for new opportunities. This is a reconstruction period, which can bring great happiness if you make the right decisions. The events that occur may not necessitate physical action on your part, but they will require you to make the proper assessments. Change is the basis of earthly manifestation. Upon the wave of change you can sail to a new fertile land where a fresh lifestyle is possible. Release from the past is followed by a renewal which brings changes that promote growth. This is a time to depart, to travel and to grow. The cyclical force of nature reigns here, as the old is replaced by the new. The king is dead; long live the king. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 13. Death. The keywords corresponding to this card are fish, fish’s mouth, or mouth of the uterus. This symbol suggests reproduction and birth, not necessarily into this world but rather rebirth of the consciousness into higher planes. In the time of Christ, the fish symbol represented those who lived in a Christlike way. The number 13 is sacred as is every multiple of 13. It connotes an initiate or one who is reborn through the mental powers of transmutation. There are twelve disciples, Jesus was the thirteenth; there are twelve zodiacal signs with the Sun at the center. Number 13 is preserved in the measurements of the Great Pyramid. Astrologically, this card is ruled by Scorpio, which governs the reproductive organs, birth, death and transmutation. The skeleton is the figure of Death, which comes to all: king, man, woman and child, without respect for station. He rides astride a well-behaved white horse, a symbol of the purified desires and senses in submission to the cyclical rhythm. However, the brilliantly shining sun between the towers in the distance promises eternal life. The life force does not die, but merely changes form. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Earth (and Scorpio). The expansion (3) of the original life force (1) ultimately produces form (4, earth). And here in number 13, appropriately ruled by Scorpio, we find that Death must be understood, not feared. Of all the zodiacal signs, Scorpio has the power to transform the things of earth, and bring about new life. Other people’s rubbish becomes Scorpio’s fuel. Another important point that is strongly suggested here is that Death belongs only to the earth. 13 has always been feared as the death number by the uninitiated, but 13 reduces to a 4, the number of the earth. The Bible tells us we are the salt of the earth. Salt crystalizes in cubes, and cube vibrates to 13. Our bodies are cubes that contain the immortal spirit, the everlasting life energy. The body dies; the essence goes on. Scorpio transforms the substance and gives it new form and new life. 14/5 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: The ancient symbol for the letter corresponding to the number 14 is a scribe, an individual who copied manuscripts by hand. Books were rare and very costly; therefore the scribe was in a unique position to glean knowledge that was otherwise denied to all but the wealthy and favored. As a result the scribe was exposed to philosophy, religion, science and the arts: all kinds of ideas that created an educated mind. The number 14 has imbued you with a vivid imagination, teeming with ideas, energy and vitality. Narrow rigid thinking confuses you, because your exposure to the greater scheme of existence won’t allow your mind to be fettered. You are willing to consider all possibilities but you won’t accept theory, no matter how plausible, until you have tested it in actual practice. You have to see practical applications in order to verify the theory. You achieve understanding and truth through trial and error. You learn by experience, however, and you are always ready to listen. The sexual principle is active under a 14. You enjoy life’s sensual pleasures and can immerse yourself in fulfilling them. Temper the bodily passions and desires or your health may suffer. Overwork can bring on physical maladies and create a barrier of competition between your business and personal life. If you are cautious, you can be successful in speculation and in handling money. Business dealings can be extremely profitable if you select the proper combinations. Analyze all the contingencies and proceed with caution. With this number your strength will be tested. If you can overcome yourself then there is no limit to your capacity for achieving greatness. You must maintain a balance among the various aspects of your life. You like continual excitement and motion but indulging in one facet of experience to the exclusion or neglect of another will bring you more problems than others would have. You must remain a positive thinker, or you can create an unstable foundation. The number 14 can be a difficult vibration, causing you to live for sensation in such a way that the physical appetites may harm you. Envy, jealousy and divorce are common. A negative 14 has a nervous impulsive nature which propels you into problematical situations. A positive 14 must learn to be more cautious, always on the lookout for the right mixture or perfect set of circumstances that will congeal into a proper blend of intellect and feelings. Once you have achieved this combination of energy, vitality and creativity, plus a superb comprehension gained through experience, you will be supplied with the necessary tools to bring inspired messages to the world. 14/5 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Active sexual principle, pregnancy, social and family obligations, competition, a need to verify. A variety of experiences will occur that urge you to slow down and think about your previous behavior. You may need to modify your lifestyle and control your desires and sexual appetites. The sexual principle is active now and can result in pregnancy. Or the creative act may be channeled to bring about a product of the mind, an invention, painting, sculpture, book or musical composition. Competitive situations may arise. In commercial or political enterprises, money and business dealings can be profitable if you are aware of all the alternatives. Be aware that with number 14 there are risks involving the loss of property or business failure. Social and family obligations could be at the root of peculiar circumstances that will need careful consideration. Through concentration and the mental transference of your thoughts, you can easily influence others now. Your verbal suggestions can sway their decisions which can work to your advantage. You will gain through tact, diplomacy and persuasion. Listen to your dreams and inner promptings. ESP experiences may help you assess your situation and find the means to modify any unacceptable circumstances. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 14. Temperance. The keyword corresponding to this card is sustenance or establishment. You should establish the foundations of your belief system through proof or verification. The keywords verification and wrath show that the desire to find the truth surfaces from within, through wrath (not temper, but strong and stem anger). This process tempers one’s soul, just as steel is tempered. We become balanced by choosing the middle path between the extremes of action. Sagittarius rules key 14. The arrow of concentration of the fiery life force brings about the manifestation of the higher ideals, which leads to elevated states of consciousness. The androgynous angel is a perfect blending of polar opposites, of male and female. It is an angel of the Sun, the life force, as shown by the solar disk on the forehead. The red wings depict the fiery nature aspiring to higher consciousness. The pool and the earth represent the subconscious and conscious minds, on which the angel maintains perfect balance. The mountain peaks symbolize attainment of wisdom and understanding. The crown in glory over them represents the culmination of the great work. This key teaches you to verify your destiny as a manipulator of the life power, the kundalini. This should be verified by actual practice and testing until you feel the presence within. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Mercury (and Sagittarius). The things of the earth (4) must be understood as manifestations of pure energy (1). Unless we can consciously direct our mental energies (Mercury) toward a deeper understanding of this concept (Sagittarius), we cannot possibly hope to develop along the lines of spiritual consciousness. We need accumulated experiences to temper ourselves into something more fitting, and a 14 or 5 vibration supplies the necessary testing situations. Anyone responding to this number will surely be tested and should learn to ask of each experience: “How can I use this?” “What lesson in tempering does this experience teach me?” Strong anger is diluted; tempered by adding another quality, such as forgiveness. The profound development that can result from the proper handling of this vibration produces great wisdom and understanding. 15/6 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You have a great deal of magnetism, plus a talent for obtaining money, gifts and favors from others. But at the same time you work for your possessions and good fortune. You are persevering and strong willed and always get what you go after. You are very conscious of other people’s foibles and weaknesses, and you may tend to take advantage of them. In the process of artfully carrying out your purposes, you may step on some toes. Your attachment to worldly status and possessions is the impetus for your driving ambition. You are a good student because you absorb knowledge easily and retain it. Knowledge thus gained allows you to proceed up the ladder of success with few slips, for you can learn from the mistakes of others. Your moves are calculated. If you are wise you will develop a philosophical attitude toward the material world. Although you pursue material rewards, you realize that worldly attachments and cares are ridiculous and can entrap you in a prison of restraint, limitation and suffering. You see people whose mistaken estimate of their possibilities results in lasting bondage. You pity those who prefer a comfortable lie to an uncomfortable truth, who prefer to believe that this world is all there is and that the individual can do nothing but endure. You see these people as negative 15’s whose obstinate adherence to materialism brings heartache and emotional disturbance, which can upset the home and marriage. They must learn emotional control. Violence and revolution, terrorism and anarchy breed as a result of their negative concepts of what they are and life is. 15 is virtue or vice; there is no middle path. You can attempt to use your knowledge and financial ability for negative purposes, or you can choose to see the paradox of materialism which at death leaves you with nothing. At death the delusion of outward appearance is erased; the grasping scrooge becomes the penniless penitent. Laughter physiologically and psychologically relieves pressure, lightens burdens and lifts the spirits. You should learn the art of laughing in the face of difficulties. Reflect on the wisdom expressed in a hymn to the Sun god Ra: “Thy priests go forth at dawn, they wash their hearts with laughter.” 15/6 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Indecision, bondage, freedom, laughter, discernment. The materialistic side of life is emphasized now. You may receive money and favors from others. Opportunities for progress can come through a radical change in your lifestyle that releases you from present limitations and allows you a freer expression. Long held views may change, and newly found beliefs can set your mind at ease and eradicate old fears. You may have to make decisions and take decisive action. Under a 15, it is vital to decide whether the experiences of this period are limiting you or setting you free. Be careful not to bum the candle at both ends in an attempt to satisfy your personal needs. Don’t chain yourself to things or people who will place you in servitude. You should be cautious about signing contracts or agreements at this time. Don’t allow outward appearance to cause heartaches, trouble in partnerships or ineffective action. Look beneath the surface and see the situation as it really is. Discernment is the keyword here. Learn to laugh at your own and other people’s weaknesses. By lightening the seriousness of your problems, by accepting the frailties of others and by looking beyond the limitations of circumstances, you can bring about peaceful and satisfying solutions. Laughter cleanses the soul and can lead to physical healing through spiritual understanding. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 15. The Devil. Key 15 shows what happens when we fail to use discrimination. The Devil is a misconception of God, as God upside down or opposite. He represents the delusion of judging by outward appearances instead of by inner realities. He also represents religious dogmatism, which is ridiculous to the enlightened person. Therefore the keyword here is mirth. We should learn to laugh in the face of difficulties, for laughter or ridicule is sometimes the most effective defense against evil. Capricorn, ruled by Saturn, overshadows this key. The Saturn center at the base of the spine is where the kundalini force lies coiled, and it is the life work of Capricorn to raise the kundalini, and then teach others. The black background on this card indicates ignorance, lack of light. The inverted pentagram on the Devil’s forehead is the symbol of black magic, inverted power. His torch bums wastefully and gives no light. The humans, chained loosely to the half cube could easily free themselves by refusing to be bound by darkness and imperfect knowledge, or half-truth, as indicated by the half cube. This key means we are God incarnate, but all too often we play the role in an upside down position, as undeveloped people, chained in bondage to appearance. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Venus (and Capricorn). In 15 or 6 we find Mercury (5) working through Mars (1) to produce the basic Venus vibration (6). The Venus awareness of opposites finds fertile ground in key 15, which casts a false image of truth. If you can examine both sides of a situation or see beyond outward appearances, you can escape the bondage of adherence to the purely physical aspects of living. Through Capricorn, the eye of discernment raises you to the highest peak of expression in the full light of day at the apex of the natural horoscope. Capricorn’s natural predilection for prestige in the material world is fulfilled by being elevated as a teacher and example for others to follow. 16/7 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are a magnetic individual. Your forceful personality attracts others. Your talent for writing and speaking aids in the clever expression of your ideas. You are a clearsighted intellectual with the ability to assess circumstances easily and accurately. This can lead to a tendency to speculate which will not always bring you the desired results. Overconfidence can result in material loss. You may experience trials, defeats and the loss of material security. Sudden material and physical upsets are the outward manifestation of emotional discontent. Examine your life and your attitudes. Is your personality dominated by emotions? Have you had disappointments in love because of misplaced affections or illicit love affairs? Have your indulgences, your selfish and unsympathetic nature, brought about this emotional fall? If any of these are true you have allowed the material world to control you. Financial, professional and personal losses dominate your existence, and you experience telepathic invasion through your subconscious. Your desire for freedom and your impatience at restraints of any kind have brought on these many difficulties. Your subconscious is now urging you, through these calamities, to awaken the inner spiritual self, the real you. It is here, under extreme pressures, that a sudden bolt from the blue, an illuminating flash of insight, will lead the way to exoneration and solution. If 16 is your Soul Number, you may be atoning for a promiscuous past when ideals were lost. Now you have to learn truth and faithfulness. If you learn freedom from dependence on the illusory material world, you will be awakened to the truth that lies deep within your soul. This is the splendor of the 16/7. Through silence and meditation you overcome all obstacles. You have the inclination, at this point in evolution, to become a mystic. Here the 16 becomes the 7. And here, any material losses are meaningless, for you have become one with the Oneness. 16/7 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Love affairs, health, accidents, awakenings. The unforeseen and sudden events of this period are intended to overthrow existing conditions, especially in a material sense. Erroneous ideas and habits must be altered, and for some this has to be done in a forceful manner. There can be losses and setbacks in business and financial affairs. This is not the time to take speculative risks. You may lose a desired position or suffer a scandal in your present position. Selfish ambitions fall under a 16, and bankruptcy may result. In extreme cases imprisonment is possible. Deception and trouble in matters of the heart are likely. The love you give can be misplaced, and disappointments may result. Separation from close partners and trouble in relationships come from your pride and emotions. The result is personal isolation. Do not overwork now. An over-expenditure of energy will take its toll on your health. The energy operating during this cycle is intense; therefore, do not take risks. Be careful of accidents and conflicts with others. Number 16 is not as bad as it seems at first. You can use the additional energy spurt during this period to plan wisely for the future. You are in touch with your intuition. If you listen to the generous advice of your inner self you can formulate plans to be implemented in the next cycle. Illuminating insights may reveal the insubstantial nature of the selfish materialistic approach and spark your creative talents to work toward a future goal which will inevitably bring good fortune. Bright prospects may arise suddenly. The power for loss is great under a 16, but so, too, is the potential for financial gain, fame and prosperity. All the material rewards are yours as long as you are not obsessed with ownership. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 16. The Tower. Mars rules this card in which the keyword is awakening. This comes as a clear flash of understanding, a bolt from the blue bringing awareness of the true nature of the self. What inspires fear in the mind of the ignorant liberates the enlightened, just as electricity frightens the primitive but is used constructively by the knowledgeable. A flash of lightning is another symbol of the electrical serpent force, or the kundalini, the Mars force in the body. The Tower, also called the Lightning-struck Tower, is the house of God, or the human body. It was also referred to as the Tower of Babel (Babble means confusion of understanding.) Lightning strikes the crown or head or place of understanding and knocks the man and woman out of the tower. This analogy depicts erroneous ideas being knocked out of the two parts of mind, conscious and subconscious, by the lightning of true understanding. The 22 yods or tongues of flame represent the 22 letters in this alphabet. These tongues of flame also refer to key 9, where the one yod is the Hermit, representing the response to primal will. When we respond to the primal will, we receive a flash of illumination which bears a message that awakens us to our true source. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Moon (and Mars). Basic desires (1, Mars) must be refined (6, Venus) before they become reality in the subconscious mind (7, Moon); once the subconscious receives the suggestion, the suggestion becomes a reality in the world of thought. It is only a matter of time before the suggestion manifests in the material world. Mars is the driving force within any given mechanism, including the human body. It also rules the head, through Aries. After the kundalini or Mars force within the body is driven up the spine, there, in the head, final illumination must take place. 17/8 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are the researcher, the scientist, the natural detective who investigates the unseen mysteries of life. You desire truth and seek solutions to enigmas. You are intuitive and fond of the occult. You delve into the secret depths of the inner consciousness in pursuit of hidden knowledge. This relationship to the secret forces of life instills in you a quiet strength and an air of mystery. Others see you as a deep individual, as indeed you are. You are an intellectual in the beginning stages of mental unfoldment. Your intelligence and introspection necessitate periods of solitude in which to meditate. Seeds germinate in darkness before they burst into the light of day. Your ideas need the same germination period in which to unfold. After questions, research, meditation and experimentation, your ideas begin to take form. You possess insight and a fine mind. You are very successful in pursuits which require deep concentration and enduring mental application. You deal wisely in the material world and enjoy seeing the tangible results of your mental concepts and efforts. You have hope and faith in the future and courage in the face of difficulties. You are determined to overcome any and all obstacles. Compassion for others and a desire for peace and love among all people is a product of your deep understanding of the essence of life, an understanding which surpasses worldly considerations. Your spiritual love imbues you with good health. If you are a negative 17 or 8 you are stubborn. Doubts bring on faithlessness and create a pessimism so that you can see no promise or light in the world. You have executive and leadership ability that can lead to a distinctive career. Researchers, discoverers, explorers, executives and aviators come under this number. You may travel often by sea or air. Because of your outstanding abilities, you may achieve fame and a name that lives on after you. 17/8 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Good fortune, rewards, travel, meditation, assistance. This is a fortunate vibration, for you will receive all types of assistance. Money, gifts, advancements and promotions are possible, and business and public affairs turn out profitably. Intellectual achievements will be rewarded. You could receive recognition for outstanding leadership. You are the star under number 17. If travel is in the picture, you could take a trip by sea or air. Medical problems will improve and you will enjoy good health. The law of action and reaction operating here proclaims that your positive attitude and buoyant hopes will be rewarded. The help you receive now brings a promise of a brighter day. Hope springs within, and because you are positively expectant, positive things happen. You are determined to overcome any obstacles and you do so. Greater mental vitality and an open channel to the unconscious help you solve any problems. Your intuitive and creative powers are pronounced, and you should spend time in meditation, where ideas that have long lain dormant can now begin to emerge into the light of understanding. Secrets are revealed to you. You must be very truthful with others. You are most persuasive now and your words can have a profound effect. Don’t allow doubts to creep into your mind, bringing on periods of depression and pessimism. Delve beneath the superficial irritants to the deeper person, the true I AM within. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 17. The Star. Fishhook, keyword for the Star, suggests the drawing of ideas from the universal subconscious. The hook relates to the subject selected for research or meditation. Revelation comes through meditation. You must still the conscious mind but keep a line on the subject chosen for meditation. Aquarius rules this key, which brings the age of revelation. The Star key explains the fifth or celestial essence, which is above and beyond the four elements of fire, earth, air and water. The great star has eight points representing rotation. The seven lesser stars refer to the seven bodily centers which are really whorls of motion and vibration. The ibis is a fishing bird, again emphasizing searching and probing. The woman represents the subconscious mind which shows that all secrets are available if you fish in the proper manner. Her left leg, holding her weight, forms a right angle or square, hinting at the number 4, order and reason. Resting on the water, her right foot shows that the mind sustains her. She pours water, her mental powers, on land and sea, indicating the pouring of knowledge over humanity everywhere. The water on land divides into five streams representing five senses. Ask yourself a question and seek the answer with calm expectancy. This is the right attitude for meditation and the proper method for gaining illumination. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Saturn (and Aquarius). 17 has the 7 of receptivity (the Moon) and the 1 of concentration (Mars). Together they equal 8, the Saturn correspondence and the symbol of the kundalini force rising from the Saturn center at the base of the spine. These are necessary attributes for the subconscious mind to use in meditation. The Aquarian influence brings the revelation, which 17/8 represents, and universal consciousness, both of which are the ultimate goals of meditation. 18/9 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are an extremely active person with an unusually vivid imagination. Intense emotions and feelings well up from your subconscious and invade your conscious mind. You can probably recall your dreams in detail. Dreams are the workings of the subconscious mind; through them, you are in touch with the illuminating guidance of your being. You are receptive and intuitive and receive impressions and hunches about people and situations. As a child you may have had nightmares which caused restlessness and troubled sleep. Your subconscious may have presented fears in the form of monsters chasing you in your dreams. It is vital that you take care of your body and health. You need rest, exercise, fresh air and sunlight; you would be wise to spend time in nature, mountain climbing, hiking, swimming, skiing, skating and so forth. Nature has healing powers to which you are attuned. Organizing your life transmits suggestions to your subconscious to organize your self. Your every action and thought affects your body physically; therefore, more than most people, your health depends upon your thoughts and lifestyle. Your intuitive powers are also dependent upon a healthy body. You are a natural healer with a gentle touch. You are tolerant of others and would make a good counselor or advisor. You are loyal to your friends and your beliefs. You have hope and faith in life and believe in justice, integrity and truth. The hidden forces of life are active within you. You are sensitive to their undulating motion, and sometimes your body reflects this sensitivity in the form of nervous habits. If you are a negative 18 you allow the subconscious to surface. You become touchy and irritable. You may be deceived by others and experience losses because of hidden enemies and unforeseen dangers. You may make money from the conditions of war, but only if you are not involved in treachery or in promotion of the disputes. You have the power to heal. Your gentle presence soothes, and your intuitive insight mends the minds and bodies of those you touch. If you develop your healing potential, you can become an influential force in the relief of suffering. 18/9 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Caution, dreaming, healing, body care. You must slow down the fast pace of your life. You need to pay more attention to your bodily needs; therefore, exercise outdoors, eat properly and get sufficient sleep. Your dreams are active now, and any sleeplessness you experience is the product of an extremely vivid imagination. New plans and ideas are forming in your mind. Do not start new projects, but rather allow the ideas to germinate. They will blossom at a later date. Maintain your present status while considering changes, such as a new occupation. Healing forces are working beneath the surface, and your health can improve if you allow periods of quiet contemplation to calm your mind. Your thoughts have a potent control over your bodily processes now. Sign documents carefully or not at all, if possible. Be on guard against deception in business and difficulties in personal affairs. Family quarrels and accidents are caused by rashness or carelessness. Travel is not advisable. Mental unsettledness can bring a physical illness. Wars and revolutions are brought on by such vibrations. You have a unique opportunity to organize your life now. Set your environment in order, clean your house, organize your desk, finish up odds and ends. Such actions will direct your subconscious to set itself in order as well. Then your dreams and visions will express the future direction you should follow. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 18. The Moon. Evolutionary growth and development come under key 18. The keywords are organization and sleep. The function of the Moon is sleep, and, during sleep, waste is eliminated and new materials are woven into the body. Consciousness continues while the upper brain cells rest. It is during sleep that our aspirations and efforts are being built into the body cells. What we think and do all day goes on influencing the body while we sleep. Every cell is a center of consciousness, and every cell contains spirit. Astrologically, Pisces, the final sign of the zodiac, rules this key. The shellfish coming out of the water represents the lower form of existence. Shaped like a scorpion, it indicates the creative force starting on the path of return, which leads to the mountain of attainment. The narrow path implies that concentration is necessary. It goes up, then down, but always rises higher at the next step. It is meant to show that spiritual unfoldment does not come all at once, but rather progresses gradually. The dog and wolf are of the same species, but one is wild and the other is domesticated (depicting nature aided by human consciousness). The towers are human handiwork. The 32 rays of the Moon indicate the 32 paths on the Tree of Life, and the falling yods represent the descent of the life force from a higher plane into the material world. Many symbols here show that we can change the outward structure of things. They are proof that the same changes may be accomplished within the body through organization and cultivation. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: The Sun (and Pisces). The test of Saturn (8) is energized and supported by Mars (1), resulting in full attainment and realization (9, the Sun). With the combination of the Sun and Pisces, final completion is possible under this number. The Sun, representing true individuality finds its own true identity in key 18, which symbolizes body consciousness. By combining body consciousness and control with realization of one’s self, all things are possible. 19/1 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: Your leadership talents would be useful in public service. You will be the head of projects as the organizer, director or manager. You are very expressive with words and would make an effective speaker or lecturer. Art and science may also appeal to you, as well as agriculture, nature and the simple pleasures of life. Your tremendous vitality and intellect create a mind capable of overcoming any obstacles. You collect, synthesize and regenerate past errors into attitudes which assure your future success. Here, your faith and creativity constantly renew those aspects of living which others ignore, thereby ensuring your continuing growth. You epitomize the quote from Ecclesiastes 8 verse 1: “A man’s wisdom maketh his face to shine.” You attract love and money. A good marriage, contentment in the home, material happiness, honor and esteem can be yours. There may be many turns in your life that require new beginnings. You must master your emotions so that emotional upheavals and uncontrolled impulses do not cause material loss and failure. If you are a negative 19, you lead a double life. You create a positive image of yourself as one type of personality while living a secret life of falsity and deceit. In this respect 19 is called the spiritual fall. Your courage is being tested. You must learn independence and refrain from self-pity. Number 19 is karmic: the equalizer and collector. As a positive 19/1 you have great endurance. You know that it is always darkest just before the dawn. Reason prevails. Many turn to you for guidance because you collect and distribute the power which gives light and life. You use this light to warm, to create, to urge growth and life, rather than to burn and scorch. You will find happiness, rewards and victory over adversities when a degree of adeptness has been attained. 19/1 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Love, marriage, rewards, obstacles overcome, new beginnings. 19 is known as the love vibration, and marriage under this number is indeed fortunate. Happiness and contentment are enhanced by good fortune in material affairs. You may experience happy reunions with friends and family. Rewards, honors, and esteem are manifestations of your past productive and creative efforts. This period brings a brand new start for you, promising liberation and prosperity. Your energy, drive and ambition run high, urging you to step out on your own. Be independent, take a chance, for luck shines upon you. Any obstacles now can be overcome. New beginnings have life-energizing forces behind them, which promote growth and assure success. You must restrain impulsive actions and prepare future plans carefully. If you indulge your personal desires, you could cause difficulties for others, broken engagements, invalid or troublesome contracts and loss of personal possessions. The future looks very uncertain to someone who uses number 19’s energies negatively. Watch every opportunity and keep a positive faith in your own abilities; then you can achieve whatever goals you pursue. Great happiness and satisfaction are possible here. The choice, as always, is yours. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 19. The Sun. The Sun means face or countenance. Face implies head, one who takes the lead, as the head of an organization. This card also brings to a head all the potencies of the life power. The keyword is regeneration. We renew our bodies when we renew our minds. “Be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind that ye may prove what is the good and perfect will of God.” (Romans 12 verse 2). Astrologically, the Sun rules this key, bringing light and life, symbol of the divinity, the great divine power. We must control and adjust our lives through the Sun’s action. As the ancients knew, the powers themselves are neither good or bad; it is how they are used. The power of the Sun is not just a physical energy but also a living power. What we see in the Sun is identical with the spiritual power behind the Sun. Everything on earth is a manifestation of the Sun. The twenty-one rays of the Sun represent the twenty-one keys of the Major Arcana in the Tarot. The four flowers symbolize organized development: mineral, vegetable, animal and Adam-consciousness. Sunflowers always face the sun to draw their power, as we should do to develop our consciousness. The nude child astride the horse has sublimated the animal desires and is a symbol of the naked truth and an understanding of things as they really are. “Except as ye become as little children, ye cannot enter the kingdom of heaven...” (Matthew 18 verse 3). ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Mars (and Sun). The personal energy, the basic life force and the driving instincts of Mars must be controlled, channeled and raised to a higher level through the developed awareness and consciousness of the true life power, the Sun. All our energy comes from the Sun, and we in turn must radiate the energy we receive. Number 19 or 1 individuals must heed the advice given in the Bible: “Let your light shine,” (Matthew 5 verse 16). 20/2 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You will be faced with many decisions in your lifetime. You must learn to make judgments based on reason, not appearance. When measuring or sizing up people, see their works and not their reputations. Outward appearances can be deceiving, so you must exercise thoughtfulness before any final judgments are made. You like to control the people in your circle of influence and prefer to shape things to the ends which you deem worthy. Such a position necessitates choices; therefore, you are constantly tested: Should I do this or that? Is it wise to take this path or that path? Shall I go with the new or stick with the old? Deep within, you have an abiding knowledge of opposites; therefore, you are continually confronted with the need to make choices. As a result, your life is one of adaptation and renewal. New plans, new purposes and new ambitions present a continuing scenario demanding decisive action. This cyclical process creates the awakened human personality because the moment of judgment is the same as the moment of awareness. You cannot make a decision until you have weighed and measured all the facts and arrived at an awareness of the situation. Through decisive action you develop yourself and overcome the difficulties in life. Let your conscience guide you. 20’s have the power to make or break, save or slay. If you are a negative 20 you fear death and change from familiar habit patterns. You must learn control over your emotions. Your weakness brings on poor health, disillusionment, loss of material goods and separation from those you love. As a positive 20, you constantly renew your life through the many decisions you must make, increasing your realization and awareness of the perpetual adaptations that life requires. 20/2 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Turning points, decisions, awareness, adaptability, reconstruction. Sudden events require you to make a decision that could be a turning point in your life. A change of location, a new job or fresh relationships demand new thoughts, feelings and actions from you. Be able to see the alternatives, the pros and cons. In this way you will learn much about yourself and how adaptable you are. If you accurately weigh and measure your present situation or any situation presented to you during this period, you will formulate a profitable plan that can be implemented in the near future. Unless you act decisively to put your ideas to practical use, the influence of number 20 can make you restless and uneasy. Do not remain idle, and don’t waste time. You are experiencing a period of growth; future realizations are now germinating. Ingest, assimilate and create form from the energies operating here. It is a fine planning period. Come to reasoned conclusions, and the cyclical force will see your plans manifested soon. Do not resist the need for change. Remain adaptable, use your common sense, and come to a logical conclusion. Then you have fulfilled the requirements of this period. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 20. Judgement. The key symbols for this card are tooth, fang, and serpent. An ancient adept was called a serpent, and when we want to invoke silence, we pronounce the sound of the letter for this key: Sh. This indicates the silence of the wise. “Be ye wise as serpents” (Matthew 10 verse 16). Teeth break food and prepare it for digestion. Wisdom, which is kept silent, destroys the forms of the outer world and reveals the hidden nature of things so that you may absorb the spiritual essence. The cobra was the sacred symbol of Egypt and India. Its venom attacks every cell of the body instantly. The serpent’s fang conveys the poison. The analogy is that wisdom can be like acid which instantly eats away everything false. Therefore, the keyword for this card is realization. Astrologically, it is ruled by Vulcan. When we have gained realization of spiritual things, our personal consciousness is ready to blend with the universal consciousness. We then realize our oneness with God and our unity with all humanity. This state of consciousness begins with a mental grasp of the real world, where our attitude is the reverse of most people’s because we identify ourselves with the One Reality. Our subconscious minds are dominated by true will. Our judgment day is the day we have reached our ability to judge the true from the false. The card represents the call to judgment day. The angel Gabriel calls those who are ready to hear the truth which shall set them free and give them new life. Stone coffins, the human body, arise from the deep. They are black when closed, from lack of light, or truth. The 3 states of consciousness arise: man, consciousness; woman, subconsciousness; and child, super consciousness. In older versions of the Tarot, their arms spell the word lux or light. They have come into illumination. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Vulcan (and Saturn). Vulcan is doubly emphasized here through the double digit 20 (Vulcan is number 2) and through the base digit 2. In mythology, Vulcan was thrown from heaven. He became the keeper of the flame, tending the forges of heaven and earth. He was also known as the master craftsman. Despite the lameness resulting from his fall, he traveled frequently between heaven and earth. The analogy in the myth represents the fall of our spirit into form, ruled by Saturn. The spirit’s freedom is hampered by the physical body. The fiery life force must be well tended by keeping open the line of communication between the body and the spirit. Vulcan may eventually be assigned to Virgo, the perfect servant and tender of health, as was Vulcan. Artisans are also assigned to Virgo. In 20, the God power 0, works through Vulcan, 2, to bring about the union of what appears, in the physical form, to be separate parts; spirit and matter. 21/3 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: This is a number of general good fortune. You have talent, charm, and luck, all of which bring success. A good memory and a positive attitude toward life are the basis of your luck. Advancements, honor and recognition are possible during your lifetime. You are patient. The limitations that most people fear become the cornerstone for your successes. Your administrative ability is enhanced because you know that the only way to rule nature is to first obey its rules, its limitations. Adherence to the orderly progression of things assures your triumph in all pursuits. The act of concentration is a sort of limitation, and concentration is the basis of science. You see the necessity of limits in the evolution of life and can validate these beliefs in scientific pursuits. The arts may call you, and many 21’s have enjoyed literary success because they are so expressive. You have achieved the union of wisdom and love through past efforts and may now desire to reveal these truths in an art form. Your professional pursuits may require changes of residence. Traveling and moving satisfy your innate need for liberation and freedom. If you are a negative 21, you fear change of all kinds. You lack vision and become greedy and selfish. Your tenacity assures eventual loss, as others manage to take away the very things that give you security. You are stubborn and refuse to learn life’s lessons. You can be an example for others through service and material attainment. You will make a mark in life. Others see you as the ultimate realization of the personality to which they wish to evolve. 21 is the mystical number of the cosmic consciousness. 21/3 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Travel, change, rewards, success, new worlds. This is a very potent period in which the old order changes, making way for the new. The newly revealed world offers ultimate realization of your plans, hopes and wishes; therefore, do not overlook opportunities that arise now. Plans already in progress may come to a successful completion, with accompanying rewards. Those plans still in the thinking stages should be carried out now, as the potential for success is high in this period. You can accomplish what you desire. Travel may be part of this cycle, and faraway places lure you. The desires for freedom, self-expression and pleasure urge you to look to distant places for fulfillment. A change of jobs and/or residence may result from your present thinking. Your subconscious is developing at a pace faster than usual during this period, along with a growing sense of security and protection. Many marriages take place under a 21/3. Mental or physical investments made here bear fruit. Those who react negatively must guard against losing emotional control. They see family responsibilities as burdens. They experience delays and restrictions and neglect to grasp offered opportunities. For them, all situations must be examined carefully. Legal counsel should be employed in business dealings because material loss is possible. For you, this period is one of reward. Realize that the opportunities opening for you now can fulfill your future dreams. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 21. The World. The key concept for this card is a mark or cross that has equal arms. A cross is sometimes used in place of a signature, therefore it takes on this meaning also. The symbology here is cosmic consciousness, which is the final seal of the great work here represented. At this point we have gained control over ourselves and our environment. Right decisions are now natural, and the One Power becomes the central reality in our lives. Saturn rules key 21. The Saturn center at the base of the spine, called the sacral plexus, is the storehouse of excess energy left from each day’s activities. Saturn has been considered a malefic; however, it can help build for the future if one uses the energies in the sacral plexus for constructive action. In mythology, Saturn was the father or the god who ate his children; this means that the cosmic consciousness swallows up all lesser consciousnesses. The bull, lion, eagle and man represent the four fixed signs of the zodiac and indicate that the laws of the universe are fixed and orderly. The wreath in the form of a zero or egg or seed is that from which all things issue forth. This is the divine power. The dancing figure is androgynous, a unity of opposite polarities; however, the veil hides this fact, showing that cyclicity also brings about this androgynous state. The figure stands on air, self-supported and perfectly balanced. This picture represents the dance of life, which is never ending. 21/3 is a new heaven and a new earth or a new mind and a new body. When we have renewed ourselves through study and practice, the old order will change. New plans and a new outlook will prevail. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Jupiter (and Saturn). Traditionally, the conjunction of Jupiter and Saturn prevails over the birth of avatars and holy persons, those who bring a message of inspiration to the world. Here this combination of planets seeks to unite the things of earth, under the rulership of Saturn, with the wisdom of the higher mind, under the control of Jupiter. Only then can Saturn’s malefic hold on many people’s lives be transformed into the highest achievement which Saturn has to offer while in the physical body to bring about elevation to the apex of the horoscope, the sacred spot closest to the Sun, the One Source. 22/4 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: This is one of the four master numbers (11, 22, 33, 44), and it can be experienced as either a 22 or a 4, or as a fluctuation between the two during your lifetime. You have the potential to accrue vast wealth and power on a world-wide scale. Your greatness can be achieved through resources, including people. You are the philanthropist whose fortune gained from material achievement is used to build a better world. Your originality allows you to create solutions to problems that others consider unsolvable. You have a genius for thinking in broad terms while always arriving at practical solutions. You are hard working, honest in dealing with people, and above all, ethical. You are a master at directing others but be careful never to exploit them for selfish reasons. Overwork and a desire for power and control can create a negative 22 whose potential for evil can produce a ruthless and even infamous type. Overwork brings on emotional difficulties. You have strong opinions and a great deal of wisdom, which is always directed to practical uses. You can contribute to shaping the destiny of the world through industry, politics or the professions. Firmness in friendship and all relationships, including marriage, provides the secure base from which you meet the world. You have enormous leadership and policy-making abilities. With effort, of which you are extremely capable, you will become one of those financial tycoons whose name lives on through good works that benefit millions. 22/4 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Travel, plans, advancements, your dreams come true. 22 is a master number and the ancient numerical value for a circle. As such it implies completion, fulfillment and cyclicity. Under a 22, you are reaching your goal; the fulfillment of your secret desires can become a reality. Success on a huge scale and attainment of those impossible dreams are very possible. You should make those big plans, dare the mighty deeds you have only contemplated up to now. Traveling toward a goal can also suggest physical travel, which is a distinct possibility here. Make sure your concepts are well organized and practical. Think in large sweeping terms, and go to the head person with your creative ideas. They have a good chance of being accepted now. Many people can benefit from the ideas you present under a 22, and as a result, you may be given a top position. You are now the known expert in your field, and others come to you for opinions and advice. This is a very tense period when you will be dealing with groups of people. Guard against extremes; do not be too extravagant with money, and do not speculate in uncertain enterprises. Stay away from gambling. Deal only with practical matters during this period. Overindulgence may cause the dissolution of affairs which otherwise have good potential. If in doubt about any matter, consult a professional. Do not trust just your own judgment. Once all the facts are collected, rely upon your own intuition, which is based on reason, to supply you with proper decisions. It can all be yours during this powerful material period. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 0; and 22). The Fool (before and after). The master number 22 holds a unique position in the Tarot deck. Theoretically, the Major Arcana begins at key 1 and continues through key 21. The Minor Arcana begins at 23, the King of Wands, and continues on to 78, the Ten of Pentacles. The Fool, as key 0, stands by itself, representing the God force. 22 would seem to be missing; however, since cyclicity is the essence of life, there can be no ending. Therefore, the Fool, key 0, is the life force before entering manifestation, and 22 is that same key 0, the Fool, having walked the 21 keys of the Major Arcana to complete that full cycle and step once more beyond the present incarnation. 22 is an ancient numerical symbol for a circle, and therefore represents the Alpha and Omega, by which the Lord described Himself in the Bible. The word fool comes from the Latin, follis, meaning a bag of wind. Every genius is called a fool at some time, and that which contains air or breath could be called a bag of wind; therefore, we are the Fool in that sense. The Fool is the super-conscious, pictured here as having room to take one more step. This indicates that we never come to the limit of our potentials. The white Sun is the universal radiant energy eternally rising, for it can never reach its zenith. The mountains indicate attainment. They are cold and uninteresting to many, but from their peaks melting snow feeds the streams and makes the valley fertile. So, too, ancient wisdom will feed your consciousness and transform your life. The Fool’s wreath symbolizes victory. His wand is a measuring tool by which we continually evaluate our accomplishments. His wallet contains memories of the past, and the eagle on the wallet symbolizes the awakening of higher vision toward loftier aspirations. The dog under the Fool’s control is the subhuman forms of life that are elevated by the evolution of the consciousness. The white rose in the Fool’s left hand indicates that his desire is pure or spiritual and untainted by lower desires and passions. The Fool here is the cosmic life force about to descend, inexperienced, into the world of manifestation. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Earth (and Uranus). Since the master number 22 reduces to a 4, the earth holds dominion in this vibration, coupled with Uranus, which is assigned to key 0, the Fool. Consciousness is a state of mind. The presence of Uranus here links the super conscious to the earthly power indicated by the 22 or 4. A blending of spiritual conscious awareness with the proper use and control of the world’s material offerings, including the body itself, gives the perfect state of being. Once this has been achieved, the individual is no longer bound by earthly considerations but merely uses them with reverence and respect. TWO: THE WANDS. 23/5 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: This number can lead you to honor, fame and material gain. Your strength is in your material ideas. You exercise intelligence in your actions and wisdom in your control. With your quick, clever brain, you learn easily and retain what you have learned. You also have the courage and daring to enforce your ideas in the material world. You enjoy exercise. Physical agility maintains good circulation and increases the brain power; therefore, your agile body and energetic mind make you a sure success. In addition, you possess healing abilities. You are gifted in speech and writing and may be known as the monarch of ideas. Thus a career in communications is possible. Researchers also come under 23 or 5. Because you are loyal and passionate, you enjoy a good marriage and children. Inheritances may come to you during your lifetime. You thrive on constant change and adventure. Learn to make each change a step in a constructive direction. You are sometimes headstrong and hasty; learn to handle this fiery energy within, and direct it accordingly. Your friendly, honest approach to others and your ambitious nature attract people in a position to aid your progress. Through your superiors you will have opportunities to better yourself. This is a karmic reaction brought on by your willingness to help others. If you are a negative 23 or 5 strict adherence to principles can create a severe, patronizing personality. You become selfish and resort to outbursts of temper when life does not go your way. As a positive 23 or 5 you can look forward to a comfortable life, surrounded by a loving family, material comforts and the honor and esteem of your peers. 23/5 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Protection, contracts, travel. There are powerful protective forces around you now to guide you into safe ports. Follow the advice you receive from superiors or those in a position to know more about the subject in question than you do. Then your pursuits and goals will be successful. You could inherit money and material goods through settlement of an estate or legal proceedings. You may enter into new contracts which could alter your life, and such agreements may require quick decisions on your part. Marriage is one such contract that reacts favorably to this vibration. The changes now occurring may result in travel. It may be to fulfill the obligations of your agreements or because good fortune has increased your finances and allowed you this extra pleasure. If others oppose your ideas, be careful not to allow the difference of opinion to degenerate into quarrels. A severe approach can alienate friends. Be truthful and helpful during this period. Your attitudes will be well rewarded through material gain, peace of mind and contentment. TAROT SYMBOLISM: King of Wands. The seated figure looking at the world indicates a mental attitude of looking toward the future, possibly deciding to change his point of view. Decorated with lions, the background screen indicates that the fixed powers of the divine law are behind him, and he is aware they are his to use. Salamanders represent spirits living in the element fire and denote that the king is able to handle fire; he can control the fire of the self and nature. He is holding the live wand of spiritual power. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: First decan Aries. The King of Wands presides over the first decan of Aries. (A decan is a ten-degree division of the zodiacal wheel; each of the 12 signs spans thirty degrees.) This Mars-ruled decan combines to make this a strong, driving force. You learn easily. You want to lead and be at the head of things. You have an abundance of ideas and aspire to improve existing conditions. You are ready to gain all the knowledge you can and you enthusiastically grasp opportunities to progress intellectually as well as physically. Your creative and inventive ability may express itself in the direction of science or other mechanical pursuits. 24/6 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: With your magnetic personality and powers of suggestion over other people, you can attract all the material comforts and nurturing relationships anyone could possibly desire. People with authority and people of influence are always anxious to see to your needs. The help you receive promotes your success. This is a fortunate love and family vibration. You are a good companion and helpmate, and you love your home, children and nature. Pride, ambition and a love of life make you a lively mate whose fulfillment comes through creating an abundant lifestyle where all things may be nurtured and grown. You may have many children whose religious, scholastic and physical growth you will carefully promote. You are a stately individual, kind, generous and patient. This number allows full expression of the harmony you seek with others. A desire for truth and justice sets you in a position where others see your sincerity and respect you for it. You are a success socially and financially. You have sound business judgment and are practical with money. Visions, dreams and ESP experiences bring you much insight and enhance your creative mind. You may also have clairvoyant experiences. If you are a negative 24 or 6, you may be jealous, unfaithful and domineering to loved ones. You are stubborn, and when crossed, you can be revengeful. 24/6 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Family matters, gain, love. This is a highly favorable period in which all undertakings can terminate successfully. You gain financially with the help of people in authority or through members of the opposite sex. Your success can depend upon these very people. Now is the time to make plans. You may have flashes of insight on how to proceed in the future. 24 or 6 is a love vibration. Marriage and the birth of children are possible, and many matters concerning the family arise now. Your happiness depends on love. You are experiencing a period of harvest, the reaping of the seeds you have sown in the past. You may receive the respect of your peers for some efforts. Financially, you stand to gain from sound practical judgment in business dealings. Understand the feelings and emotions of other family members, and be available when they need your wise counseling. Be generous, helpful and patient with those near you, and your efforts will be rewarded. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Queen of Wands. The Queen holds the wand of live power in her right hand; the sunflower which always turns to face the Sun is in her left hand. The sunflower refers to the Leo decan of Aries. The black cat in front of her throne represents clairvoyant powers. The 2 lions on the backdrop and the carved lions on her throne again suggest Leo and also bring in key 8, Strength. The triple peaks in the background depict attainment on three planes of consciousness. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Second decan Aries. The Queen of Wands presides over the second decan of Aries which is the Leo decan, presided over by the Sun. This decan gives a high-spirited and ambitious temperament. It is a fortunate number in that your generosity and magnanimity are rewarded in kind by those with whom you deal. You attract success and assistance because of your sunny, optimistic outlook. 25/7 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are strongly intuitive and often have prophetic dreams. You may be clairvoyant as well. These are qualities you have developed by overcoming many obstacles. Your early years may have been difficult, and these trials may have helped you overcome instability. You had to awaken to the truths within and thereby acquire wisdom. What others see in you as intuition is merely a developed talent of observation and attention to details, which allows you to piece together the whole and arrive at conclusions much faster than others. If past experiences have not taught you to develop these qualities, then you should begin now; otherwise, your impulsive nature can turn challenging situations into conflict. You have an alert, energetic mind, which always seeks new enterprises, ideas and locations. You like nature and may prefer to live in the country rather than the city, perhaps near the water. Your adventurous disposition tends to make you more mobile than most, and you may often change your place of residence to fulfill this wanderlust. A pioneering spirit and a quest for knowledge bring out the fiery missionary zeal within you, and you become a spiritual crusader. Remain alert to various ways to overcome the obstacles you will meet and work hard to follow through with the job; then you will achieve leadership in any business or enterprise you embrace. If you express the negative 25 or 7 it will cause conflict and a loss of energy. The job never gets done. Laxity and unfulfillment can then bring on cruelty. 25/7 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Change of residence, trials, health, success after difficulty. You may experience trials and difficulties now which will make you draw upon your energy reserves. Success can be yours, but it won’t be handed to you: it comes after hard work and perseverance. During this period, use your mental energy positively and constructively. Visualize what you want and keep the thought ever present in your mind. Hasty actions can cause conflicts. Sudden decisions may necessitate a change of residence, a trip or some other kind of movement. Travel should be undertaken with care; the wise person does not stay at home but travels cautiously. Annoying health conditions may arise and need attention. Sign all documents only after consulting an expert in the appropriate field. Then proceed, assured that your enterprises will be very successful, because you have taken into account all details and mitigating circumstances. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Knight of Wands. The Knight is dressed in his suit of armor and is riding to the conquest. This indicates his burgeoning thoughts about a new enterprise and his desire to win. His crusade could be a search for the truth, because his weapon is the wand of divine power. The salamander symbol on his robe indicates his ability to handle the fiery energy. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Spring (Aries, Taurus, Gemini). The Knight of Wands presides over the spring season, from the time that the Sun enters the sign Aries until it reaches the summer solstice at 0 degrees of the sign Cancer. The Sun is exalted in Aries, and its power awakens new life as nature responds to its wanning rays. Like nature, at this time of year you gain strength through mastering obstacles. There can be difficulties as you struggle to meet the Sun’s promise, but you persevere through hard work. 26/8 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: This is a karmic number. It designates a life in which you learn about the world around you through experience. Stressful situations eventually develop your self-confidence, at which time positive action brings prosperity and fulfillment. You have enthusiasm, courage and a desire for power. The power will come when you have learned wisdom and developed strength through self-control. Your impulsiveness involves you in sudden love relationships. That same impulsiveness causes irritation in others, creating tense situations. You must learn self-control, patience and endurance. You must be subservient to the laws of nature before you can master them. You are a gifted speaker who could become a lecturer, debater or diplomat. Communication is vital because your wide-angle vision allows a view of the whole, while others are mired in the parts. Your ideas are looking for assimilation; only through communication will your concepts find realization. Through interactions with others you will learn to form enduring relationships which will fortify your position in life. Your relationships are decidedly karmic and will be either destructive or supportive, depending on your past actions. You could excel in sports, especially running, sprinting, high jumps, skiing, gymnastics, etc. You most likely prefer outdoor sports, pursuits which involve the legs, coordination and a sense of balance. 26/8 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Messages, marriage, gestation, karma. Expect some kind of message, tidings or good news. Since this is a karmic period, you may meet a marriage prospect or someone who will figure importantly in your future. Many pregnant women are under this vibration, suggesting a karmic relationship between the child and parent or parents. This is a good time to develop your powers of expression. Take an elocution course or learn a foreign language. Study a subject that will broaden your horizons and enhance your experience. 26 or 8 is a splendid financial vibration; however, use good judgment. Check out all the details before making investments or going into partnership or agreements. As a negative vibration, you may receive bad news of some kind. Partnerships or contracts may be broken and losses can occur, causing indecision. If positive, expect the very best. Beautiful relationships can be formed now, ensuring a lifetime of happiness and fulfillment. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Page of Wands. The standing youth seems to be taking the measure of his power. He feels his inner strength but has yet to test and prove it on the open plain before him. Though he wears the salamander robe of protection with confidence, he nevertheless mentally inspects the working of divine power in his wand. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Third decan Aries. The third decan of Aries brings in the Sagittarian co-rulership of Jupiter. You have an energetic nature and are fond of outdoor sports. Your benevolent, jovial and expansive nature tends to bring worldly prosperity, giving you the power to control others. You maintain an attitude of self-confidence even under stress because of the Jupiterian vibrations present here. 27/9 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: This is a number of great spiritual strength. The beginnings of a deep spiritual understanding endow you with insight and prescience. You should follow your own intuitions rather than allow yourself to be swayed by others. You are just, and wise; you wish to maintain harmony and to help others mentally, physically and spiritually. You have a fertile, creative mind and a love of beauty and art. Energetic, inventive ideas bring unusually successful results after many attempts and changes. Others seek you out because you always have an original approach to the solution of their problems. Your creativity extends to the physical plane: you will produce an abundant family. Civilizations are built upon the stuff of which you are made. All business enterprises will succeed beyond expectation with you at the helm. Your mental strength and positive attitude endow you with the power to act independently. You impress other people so that they are willing to follow you and implement your ideas. Your influence over others, coupled with an ability to lead, brings you wealth and comfort. If you are a negative 27 or 9, you are confused and indecisive, never knowing what path to take. You are also intolerant of the failing, or what you deem the failing, of others. You have a tremendous opportunity in this lifetime to develop your ideas in a tangible way. There is no question that your mental capabilities are great. Now you must bring your ideas out of the realm of concepts and make them a reality. Create useful products that will benefit the world. 27/9 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Birth, marriage, start of new business. Things are growing, blossoming, and bearing fruit under this vibration. It is a fertile, promising period in your life. Relationships bloom and bring deeper understanding; therefore, marriage and close partnerships are a probability here. If you have been planning to open a new business, patent an idea, have a showing or present any kind of creative enterprise, now is the time to do so. This vibration brings together all the ingredients for a successful promotion. You will enlist the aid of others. They, in turn, will be more than happy to see that you receive what you need, because your positive attitude is infectious. This could very well be the beginning of your fortune. The events occurring now will ultimately bring the wealth, prosperity and goals that you seek. A negative reaction could bring delays, postponed travels, the termination of an existing business or generally unhappy feelings. By expressing a positive, expectant attitude, you can bring about the best side of this unusually excellent number vibration. You are off on a happy new adventure in many respects. A trip is possible, but if you do not travel physically, you are at least on a journey toward your innermost dreams. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Ace of Wands. The hand of God holds forth a living wand, a growing thing with green leaves. Some leaves fall to earth in the form of yods, the sparks of inspiration and creation. The wand dispenses life to all areas, for all purposes. It is pure invention, waiting to be tapped by those who would use this spiritual power. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: The element fire (Aries, Leo, Sagittarius). The aces of the Tarot pack preside over the elements fire, earth, air and water. The fiery element relating to the Ace of Wands indicates that you should follow your own intuition and not deviate from what you feel is right. You are inventive, creative and inspired; you bring originality to everything you touch. Art and beauty, peace and justice are very much a part of you. 28/1 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: If you use care and good judgment, there are great possibilities for your life. You are ambitious and progressive, willing to lead and take responsibility. You wish to improve existing conditions. Your positive, direct approach to life instills zest in every new enterprise you initiate. You are a person of action with the ability to see things as they really are, unclouded by preconceived ideas or thoughts. You have good judgment because you have a direct link with your source of knowledge and a perfect balance between your desires and your thoughts. You are a visionary with the ability to translate your dreams into tangible products. There is a vital, stimulating, resourceful quality in this number, always ready for action and pioneering ventures. With boldness and courage, you are the master of your fate, the sovereign of your world. Your talent for inspiring others, your balanced mind, kindness and generosity create a karmic reaction which brings you success and satisfaction. You are attractive to the opposite sex. Money and good fortune are your payment for giving others your energy and material assistance. You may have an interest in scientific procedures. Negatively, a 28 or 1 can be reckless and daring. You should practice self-control to regain a balance. You can be proud, dominating, intolerant and full of contradictions. Losses may result from poor judgment and misplaced trust in others. You probably work better if you do not work alone, and at this point you may need to begin again, profiting by experience. Once you have determined your goal and learned to trust your intuition, you will be well on your way to a position of contentment and worldly influence. 28/1 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Contradictions, competition, surprise, unusual events. This period offers many opportunities that may result in a series of unusual or unexpected events. If you proceed with caution, your finances could improve and prosperity result. There is a competitive aspect here which suggests opposition. This could result in losses through partnerships, the law, or placing too much trust in others. Herein lies the contradictory nature of this number vibration. Land and property dealings can bring unexpectedly good profits or surprising losses, depending on your original motives and behavior. If you have been honest, ethical and aboveboard, you can expect the former. Be prepared for events that come up suddenly that will test your ability to judge fairly without becoming too emotional or too stem. Good judgment is essential in all transactions and agreements. If you obtain the facts and use them wisely, you can have very profitable relationships with your peers. Some people, believing that they have all the answers, resort to sudden rash behavior. The promising beginning now offered is then lost by this lack of judgment. The outcome of this period seems to rest solely in your hands. You have the reins; you can direct your energy down the primrose path or to the town dump. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Two of Wands. A man is holding the world in his hand, indicating unlimited opportunity for achievement in any line. He is dressed in the red robe of activity and desire. He is surrounded with live power shown by the two firmly planted living wands. He looks out over the water, signifying the recognition of subconscious powers. The garden in the background shows work that has been done in previous lives. The emblem of crossed lilies and roses shows that physical desire and spiritual unfoldment are blended harmoniously. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: First decan Aries. There is a vitalizing, stimulating and resourceful quality in this division of the zodiac. You have courage and passion and are always ready for action and pioneering ventures. You are attractive to the opposite sex. You are emotional, generous and affectionate; at the same time, you are proud and aggressive. You understand there are many ways to accomplish any goal, and this can sometimes create difficulty in decision making. Therefore, you must learn patience, and profit by past experiences. 29/11 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: 29/11 is a master number and as such requires more of you than the other number vibrations. (Read number 11 and number 2, as you may fluctuate between these two basic energies.) This is a testing incarnation in which the strengths you have established in the past must now be put to a commercial use. You are a novice in the business world that now beckons, yet you have all the tools necessary to operate a successful enterprise. The word wisdom vibrates to 29 or 11 as does the word light. The positive side of the vibration endows you with the vision and foresight necessary to look beyond the ordinary world and see the uses for your many talents. You are then able to achieve wealth and success in the business world. Other business people are willing to help you achieve your goals, and you can enter a profitable financial partnership. Just as light is physically unstable and fluctuating, this number indicates uncertainty, indecision and anxiety. This energy can draw you to unreliable friends and contracts which become testing situations. Pride, arrogance and stubbornness sometimes prevent you from admitting your error. However, once fears are overcome and barriers lifted, you look back into your pool of knowledge and establish again a position of strength and stability. You are definitely an individualist. You have vitality and a generous nature. You must learn the fine art of cooperation, since you like to have the last word. Learn to make up your mind and stick to it. When you are able to persevere in your goals, you will, after some struggle, attain your hopes and dreams. 29/11 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Learning period, commercial opportunities, help offered. This is a master number period. It requires more effort from you but promises greater rewards. Be alert. Keep your eyes open and watch for opportunities that come your way. Use good judgment and insight in evaluating the offers that are presented to you. Do not overlook or ignore any possibilities. Learn to see the advantages at hand and grasp them. Business ventures and commercial openings offer a new approach to life. A partnership may be part of an agreement. Be open to new ideas and willing to accept the help that reputable business people extend to you. A negative 29 or 11 brings uncertainties and fears. Friends prove unreliable and disappointments set in. There is trouble making decisions. Offers of help should be looked at carefully. You can use this period to tune in to your true inner powers, bring them out into the light and test them in the world of form. See what your talents are worth by putting them to practical use. If this is done wisely, you stand to profit from such endeavors. Your peers may recognize your efforts by bestowing some honor upon you. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Three of Wands. The wands stand for spiritual power. The figure is facing away from the power. He should reverse his thought and make the power available. The background is barren, showing that much cultivation is needed. His attitude is introspective to the extent that he is unaware of the advantage at hand, yet he keeps firm hold of one wand as security. The ships at sea stand for safe voyage, and water, as always, means subconscious reflection and receptivity. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Second decan Aries. This is the ambitious area of the zodiac, with great drive toward your chosen goal. There is an eagerness and enthusiasm about you that affects others. You emanate a joyous vibration which spreads over people who come within your sphere of influence. This ability assures you a welcome wherever you go. You can be the life of the party in your particular circle. Your attitude could be described as regal. Take care of this cosmic gift and use it carefully. If you allow it to turn to pride and egotism, failure, rather than success, will cause eventual regret. Hold to your highest ideals and enjoy the reward of virtue. 30/3 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: As in all numbers containing the zero, the God power is behind the expression of the first digit. You seek perfection and strive for security. This is an excellent number for handling large assignments because your mind is orderly and systematic. You could be an excellent lawyer or judge because you love system and respect conventional living. You are extremely versatile and clever and could easily excel in science. You have the skill to be a physician or surgeon. You are skillful in the arts as well. You love the theater, plays, writing, music, children and animals. All things that bring enjoyment and fulfillment appeal to you. The rich rewards, material comforts and loving pleasures of a happy home are yours. Because you have material goods in abundance, you may be indifferent to them and turn to religious or philosophical interests. You are idealistic and have an interest in higher consciousness and prophecy. Your sex appeal is a great asset as well as a subtle danger unless handled with a practical mind. You easily occupy the center of the stage because you are charming and agreeable. You will have the abundance that life has to offer and thus the freedom to explore and express the very best within you. You can shine as brilliantly as the brightest star in the heavens and sprinkle a little sparkle into the lives of many people. 30/3 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Work completed, celebration, romance, happy home. The projects that you have been working on reach their fullest expression in this period. If the work has been done well, the rewards will come now in abundance. It is a time for feasting and celebration, a time that has been long awaited. Your fondest hopes and dreams can now be fulfilled. These energies are also concerned with the home and domestic relationships. If a romance is in the wind, it will blossom. Marriage will bring happiness, fulfillment and fertility. Your mind is active. You are clever and capable of wide vision. If you have an artistic bent, the vibrations you are now experiencing will enhance anything you create. An interest in philosophical or metaphysical disciplines will also spark the fires of expression, and if you practice these mind-stimulating arts, you will improve your ability to communicate more effectively. Your mind is in a superior state. The negative side of 30 or 3 may bring a delay or a diminishing of the qualities described above; however, even at its worst, this number seems to offer only good. Great joy, harmony and peace are yours, plus love, romance and the rewards of work well done. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Four of Wands. The planted living wands show perfected work. Things have come to fruition. The red-roofed towers show desires realized. The two figures denote the union of two minds, and the garland of flowers and fruits is raised high on the wands, meaning prize work accomplished and hung aloft in triumph. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Third decan Aries. Advantage always accrues in the third decan, for there is the essence of the combined planetary rulers of the fire trinity. You desire quality in the things you do, buy or collect. Your work or profession will be chosen with the best aim and desire to succeed. A charming personality is one of your cosmic gifts at birth, giving you the magnetism which attracts the opposite sex. This is an asset as well as a danger, according to how you handle yourself. Remember to follow the law of right and justice while creating beauty and harmony in your life. Your potential for success is best expressed by following a conventional course in life. Travel and the study of philosophy are possible outlets for your energy. 31/4 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are a natural fighter; you fight for what you want and what you believe in. You are independent and proud and will work hard to prove your point. This intense competitive spirit often results in strife by arousing competitiveness in others. A rash scattering of energies can deplete your impact, so you must organize and direct your actions efficiently. You have determination, energy and patience. If you learn to be practical, you will be rewarded through business and financial success. You have potential for achievement, and when you learn cooperation and direction, you will accomplish a great deal. You could establish an industry based on knowledge gained through diligent research. You radiate love freely and powerfully; your loving nature illuminates the lives of others. You are generous and will surmount all difficulties because you have a positive attitude. You see each obstacle as an opportunity to prove your mettle. If you are a negative 31 or 4, you remain disorganized and live a life of struggle, dispute, difficulties and material lack. You are nervous and high strung and must learn to adjust harmoniously to others. Legal complications can arise through your rash behavior and pompous attitude. You see the battle of life as a place where you can balance and express your strength by overcoming all obstacles. Your ambition urges you on to achievement, and you eventually reach the top of the mountain, where the exhilarating satisfaction you feel can be experienced only by one who has made the arduous climb. Success is yours. 31/4 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Competition, obstacles, legal dealings, settlements. You must learn to adjust to others now. Your energy is at a peak. A great deal can be accomplished if you direct those energies; otherwise your vitality may be misplaced and cause difficulties and dissension with others. A quarrelsome nature will cause isolation and loneliness. Positive action will open new opportunities and bring about changes for the better in business and financial speculation. Favorable factors combine to bring success, as long as you don’t allow disorganization and dissipation of your precious energy. Legal matters may need attention, and long-pending lawsuits will be settled under this vibration. Contracts and legal agreements should be approached in a calm and orderly manner. Cooperation, practicality and honesty are essential, so do not allow pride and extravagance to spoil the favorable outcome of these dealings. Your finances can improve now if you join with others in an honest, mutual effort to bring about tangible results. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Five of Wands. Five youths are shown wielding their wands in a way that expresses imbalance. This could be called the battle of life in which each one is trying to do something in his own way. If cooperation were the rule and if they joined forces, they could accomplish a great deal. This shows mental restlessness and lack of serenity. The desirability of regaining balance is the lesson depicted in this key. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: First decan Leo. This area of the zodiac indicates a strong will. You have determination and the ability to exert influence for what you believe is right. You are loyal and sincere, and while you desire harmony, you want to achieve it by bending others to your will and ways of action. You are dramatic and could follow a career in the theater, movies or television. You are endowed with a good memory and good vitality. You are forceful and resolute in all you do. 32/5 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: 32 or 5 is the magical number ruling people and nations. It gives protection, and such words as America, Christ, glory, power and circle vibrate to it. You who are under the influence of this number are called the heralds of light; you have the knowledge and are commissioned to send it forth. You are a warrior for the right with a developed sense of duty and responsibility. You bring a message of good tidings for the future. This is a number demanding action. You must be patient, determined and persistent in getting ahead. Your goals must be high. You must be mentally responsible and rely on your intuition. You have the