agreement in occult, philosophical and mystical studies, and much potential for growth on the spiritual plane together. The 2 person understands and knows how to co-operate, and the 7 person needs periods alone to meditate and perfect ideas that eventually can be shared beneficially by both. 2 WITH AN 8: Your combined energies can take you far towards material success as this is an excellent money and financial combination. As a team you can build prestige, and enjoy a fine reputation for honesty and fair dealings. You are both efficient, and if the 8 person is careful not to overshadow and overwhelm the 2 person through his or her dynamic vibration, a good friendship can develop. The 8 person can rely upon the diplomacy and tact of the 2 person in all business dealings. 2 WITH A 9: The mediating and balancing capabilities of the 2 person coupled with the insight and vision of the 9 person can produce a winning combination. Each contributes harmoniously to the other, and when both are working for a cause, the momentum is increased through having a common goal. The 2 person’s ability to see both sides of a situation lends a firm foundation to the imagination and humanitarian instincts of the 9 person, and together they can do much to advance the needs of the world. 3 WITH A 3: This is a combination to watch out for. Since you both are apt to take too many chances, and believe in luck, which you have to a certain extent, you may extend yourselves too far. Your urge towards big ideas and expansive methods of operating your affairs can lead to waste and frivolousness. There is a bit of the gambler in both of you. If these qualities can be toned down and controlled, you can tackle just about anything. 3 WITH A 4: For these two persons to co-exist, a compromise is necessary. Each one must listen to the other, for the 3 person is expansive and free thinking, and the 4 person is saving and conservative, and these qualities can clash. A lasting association is possible if the 3 person is aware of the partner’s need for stability and caution, and if the 4 person eases up and listens to the broadening ideas of the 3. Together they can implement sparkling ideas with a firm foundation. 3 WITH A 5: These vibrations are harmonious, and almost anything you try together is bound to succeed. You are both set for full speed ahead. “Do it now” is your motto; the only danger is in being too hasty with your ideas. You are both full of ideas which the 3 person can display effectively, and the 5 person can sell easily. You may find yourselves carrying on more than one business at a time to supply outlets for your numerous ideas. 3 WITH A 6: This should be a very good relationship because you are both congenial, and fond of pleasure and socializing. Understanding and harmony exist between you because you have similar personality traits which should develop into a lasting friendship where you feel safe in making long range plans and investments together. Businesses which promote friendship and love, such as planning engagement or wedding parties, would appeal to you both. 3 WITH A 7: The 3 person supplies the energy and inspiration in this relationship whereas the 7 person gives understanding and deep insight. This is a winning combination in which the mystical 7 benefits from the lively traits of the 3, and the 3 learns to examine his or her own scattering tendencies and deal more productively with his or her talents. The 3 needs to socialize, and the 7 needs time alone. With each other’s needs in mind, this partnership can be ideal. 3 WITH AN 8: If handled constructively, there is nothing that can stop this combination. The 3 person has the talent for ideas, communication and effective advertising; the 8 has the power and drive in big business and philanthropic projects. Each supplements the other’s needs. If your aims are compatible, this is an unbeatable combination, and your highest hopes can be attained through 8’s practical business sense and 3’s social talents. 3 WITH A 9: There is much idealism in these two numbers and work in the material world can be neglected for the social pleasures of the 3, and the philanthropic leanings of the 9. Co-operation and mutual understanding abound here, and perhaps the combination is too compatible. As a team, you must bring your idealism into focus, and realize that practicality is essential, and that the material world is as important as the spiritual. 4 WITH A 4: This can be an extremely lucky and compatible combination, bringing financial success and material comfort. You are both builders in the material sense, and like to have visible products at the end of your endeavors. Your work must have practical value. Be careful that you don’t become too immersed in the physical side of life, neglecting the spiritual side of your development. This is a danger as you are both so much alike. 4 WITH A 5: This can be a good combination chiefly because you are so different. The 4 has the practicality and solidity to stabilize your combined efforts. The 4 is the balance wheel in this partnership. The 5 person supplies the wit and a variety of ideas. The 5 also has many contacts because he or she communicates so well with others. The 5 person can more easily adjust a mood to blend harmoniously with the 4, and the results will be worth the effort. 4 WITH A 6: You are both serious and practical, yet you love pleasure enough to keep a balance between your work and your play. Thus you create an atmosphere of happiness and joy. The 4 person is willing to work for gains, and the 6 person loves the home and the arts. Your combined talents might take you into professions that involve beautifying your surroundings. Your work would be appreciated and enjoyed by others. 4 WITH A 7: The 4’s talent for strong practical planning and thoroughness coupled with the deep insight and imaginative talents of the 7 person can create a combination of powers that can add up to great achievement. This is a good balance, because the 4 person lives in a material world whereas the 7 lives in a mental world. By combining these two aspects wisely, perfect balance can be achieved. 4 WITH AN 8: Where the 8 person thinks in terms of great power and large business deals, the 4 person can be a perfect balance with the ability to see the small details and add the practical stability that must shore up any large enterprise. You both tend toward physical and material achievement; the 4 moves in a more cautious and conservative manner, while 8 progresses in a larger and more sweeping way. But as a team you balance each other well. 4 WITH A 9: The 4 person has a valuable chance in this partnership to learn the lessons of life because the 9 person has much wisdom and insight to offer which can lift the 4 from the material world and show the value of work in a higher sense. The 9 person learns the lessons of practicality and work on the material plane from the 4. There is an exchange of ideas and philosophies in this combination, and a melding of brilliance with reason and judgment. 5 WITH A 5: You are both temperamental and excitable and when you work in conjunction these qualities come to the surface. If you wish to work well together, you will have to suppress outbursts that arise from nervous energy. Channel your combined energies into work that is adventurous and exciting, which might involve travel, or at least something that offers you both change and intellectual stimulation. Neither of you likes to be tied down for long, and if you are to be successful as a duo, you must find outlets for your energies. 5 WITH A 6: The 5 person intellectually stimulates and brings out the domestic and artistic qualities of the 6 person. The 6 lends form, beauty and order to the variety of ideas and the impulsive nature of the 5 person. The home would be well cared for and tastefully decorated, and much activity would take place there. This is a stimulating yet comfortable combination that puts others at ease. 5 WITH A 7: Too much talk and excitement on the part of the 5 person can turn the 7 person off. The 7 needs periods of quiet introspection and meditation and can be a calming influence on the 5. The 5 can add the zip and zest that the 7 person might lack. Together, through mutual respect and understanding of the other’s innate qualities, this combination can be extremely successful in the world of ideas. 5 WITH AN 8: This combination might be called greased lightning if you combine your vibrations wisely. You are both highly charged, the 5 in the realm of ideas and communication, and the 8 in the worlds of business, finance and sports. There is a great desire for adventure, and the 8 provides the underlying strength to shore up any projects. You both may need to listen to inner promptings and restrain your dynamism at appropriate moments. 5 WITH A 9: This can be a winning combination in that the 5 provides the versatility and promotional abilities to present the 9’s insight into the realm of science and research to the world at large. The 5 has the energy and the contacts and the know-how to advertise the expertise and wisdom of the 9 person, whereas the 9 person has the balancing qualities to turn the 5’s adventures into reliable and sustaining results. 6 WITH A 6: Beauty, art and comfort are paramount in the nature of the 6, and too much sweetness and roses can be tiresome if there is no real constructive stimulation to go with it. The danger here is that the sameness of your natures is apt to let things go along peacefully, while avoiding work. By combining your talents wisely, you can create an atmosphere of incredible beauty in the home or the community. There is great gentleness and love of the home in this combination. 6 WITH A 7: This can be a difficult combination in that the 6 person is involved in the domestic and artistic world much to the exclusion of all else, and the 7 person is also immersed in separate worlds of mind and thought. The danger here lies in failure to communicate with each other at all. Cooperation and the determination to communicate with one another must be decided upon from the outset. 6 WITH AN 8: This combination has strong possibilities. The 6 person offers the loving support and the spark of imagination that will benefit the 8 person in whatever profession is chosen as a goal. The 8 person with the stronger financial and commercial tendencies, will most likely take the lead in this partnership, and the 6 can offer creative methods for handling and presenting those ideas, plus the domestic background support that makes the end of the day a joy. 6 WITH A 9: Here is a chance for lasting friendship or partnership. You enjoy mutual feelings about most subjects, and both believe that marriage demands the spirit of give and take. The 6 supplies the beauty, the 9 the truth; and together you can learn much from each other in the realm of the domestic 6, the microcosmic unit, and in the realm of the universal 9, the macrocosmic unit. Each teaches the other the importance of the smaller and the greater. 7 WITH A 7: Peace is the key word here. You are both mature in your emotions and no disruption or argument between you could endure for long. You both tend to live in a world of ideas, and realize the transitory nature of the material world. The danger here lies in your rejecting the physical world as illusory, and consequently spending all of your time in your minds, with no one to pay the bills and keep the wolf from the door. 7 WITH AN 8: This could be an excellent partnership. The fire and strength, heat and force of the 8 can overpower the quiet 7, but 8’s organizational and executive abilities can greatly enhance the insight and vision of the 7 person. Thus the 8 provides the strength while the 7 predicts the outcome and adds the calm intellect that enhances the daring qualities of the 8. Together this can be a most effective partnership. 7 WITH A 9: Great depth and sympathies exist in this pair. Inner growth is a goal you both seek, and the universality of ideas brings harmony, understanding and peace to you both. This is an almost perfect combination as you have a meeting of mind, heart and soul in harmony. A mystical relationship could develop and your combined talents could produce benefits for all humanity, in which your wisdom could enhance the lives of all those you contact. 8 WITH AN 8: This is a perfect pair for a revolution. As power meets power head on, the sparks may fly. On the other hand, you could have the opposite effect and extinguish each other. As with all energies, this combination can be used wisely. Handled with great care, your combined strength and executive capabilities could present a united front to the world that could not be beaten by any ordinary opposition. This is a partnership that could accomplish almost anything in the world. 8 WITH A 9: This is a good partnership for scientific or philanthropic research and activity. The creative qualities of the 9 combined with the power and practicality of the 8 make this a tremendously successful combination in research and financial or economic circles. At the same time you could contribute much to each other in a spiritual sense since the 8 supplies the stability and values of the material world while the 9 exemplifies the universal philosopher. 9 WITH A 9: This may be said to be a combination of destiny, as you are both intuitive, clear-sighted and imaginatively creative. You both know the value of enhancing your own lives through the teaching and caring of others, and some great benefit to humanity should result from this partnership. A deep bond will grow between you, and you will gain much enlightenment from one another. Missing Numbers in Your Name. The missing numbers in your name, sometimes called the karmic numbers, indicate the qualities you must develop in this lifetime. They represent the qualities and attitudes we must adopt in order to expiate the shortcomings of our past lives. In our example, Ada Wynn Lunt has the following number vibration, as shown on screen. To these we will add a new number vibration. Add the double digit Path of Destiny Number to the double digit Life Lesson Number. The result is the Power Number. The Power Number represents a vibration that comes into play through your 30’s and 40’s. It is a combination of all your talents. If we examine the number vibrations in Ada’s name, we see that she is missing the numbers 6, 8 and 9. If any of these numbers is present in her four personal numbers, her Power Number, or a nickname she may use, then that vibration is already present in her life. Her four personal numbers are 12 or 3; 29 or 11 or 2; 41 or 5; and 37 or 1. Her Power Number is 78 or 15 or 6. From the missing group of 6, 8 and 9, we can eliminate the 6, which she has as a Power Number. So Ada is only missing numbers 8 and 9. The qualities represented by these numbers must be incorporated into her life. Remember that in addition to the personal numbers and the Power Number, a nickname or some other name change may fulfill a missing number vibration. Therefore, check all possible name and number combinations before deciding that you lack a certain number or numbers. In this case, master numbers can be reduced to fulfill vibrations. An 11 fulfills a 2 vibration, a 22 fulfills a 4, a 33 fulfills a 6, and a 44 fulfills an 8. Find your missing numbers, if any, and read the following delineations to determine what qualities must be built into your character. For further delineation, look up the number in Part 2. 1 AS A MISSING NUMBER: You need to build in the qualities of leadership, courage and daring. It is important that you learn to make decisions and take control of any given situation which requires your effort. You need to assert your individuality so that you will be heard and listened to. You must learn to be first and best at something, and to step out into new and untried situations. Exert your pioneering instincts, and dare to be yourself. 2 AS A MISSING NUMBER: You must learn the fine art of cooperation, tact and diplomacy. Working in partnership with another requires giving on your part; learn to stay in the background when necessary. When you understand how another person thinks and feels, you can get in touch with your own emotions and feelings, because you can view the reaction you have upon others. By developing an awareness of opposites, you will enhance your own creative potentials. 3 AS A MISSING NUMBER: You need to learn to express yourself. Develop your communicative talents by training yourself in the art of speaking through acting, elocution, foreign languages, and so forth, so that you can be an influence in the lives of others. You should develop a happy optimistic outlook and spread enthusiasm and sunshine wherever you go. More socializing and entertaining are necessary in your life. Travel, broaden your mind and examine new opportunities. Be aware of your appearance because this has a distinct influence upon those you meet. 4 AS A MISSING NUMBER: You must develop an orderly, systematic life style which produces a structured existence. You must translate your energies into tangible forms through hard work and discipline. Budget finances and keep accounts in order. Become thrifty and practical, steady and reliable. Use reason to arrive at conclusions. Learn what it means to be the salt of the earth, because your life needs a strong foundation set upon the cornerstone of order, logic and hard work. 5 AS A MISSING NUMBER: You need to learn to adjust to changes and to become more versatile. You must develop your freedom, physically, mentally and spiritually so that the more adventurous side of your nature can express itself. You need to travel and socialize with many types of individuals so that your own perspective on life can be enhanced and broadened. Develop your mind and learn to communicate effectively with others. Your mind is your greatest resource, and should be utilized to its fullest potential. 6 AS A MISSING NUMBER: You must express more love for others. 6 is the domestic vibration, and the lack of it indicates a need to deepen ties of affection with those in your immediate family and environment. You should develop a personal sense of responsibility for those who depend upon you, and a social sense of responsibility for the welfare of those in your community. By becoming aware of the needs of others, you increase your ability to see both sides of an issue and therefore sharpen your talent for making keen judgments. This acute sense of balance heightens your artistic sense and may help you realize hidden creative abilities. The artist in you may then emerge. 7 AS A MISSING NUMBER: You need to develop your mind, and your intuitive and philosophical side. You must abandon the material world on occasion and learn to go within yourself, to meditate and ponder upon the substance of your being. Trips alone into the countryside or to the seashore should be part of your yearly schedule. During these isolated periods, your creative imagination can roam freely to explore the world of thought. Develop your perceptions so that you will not be fooled by outward appearances. Study philosophy, religion and metaphysics to expand your mind. 8 AS A MISSING NUMBER: You should channel your energies into the material world to attain a position of leadership. Develop your business sense. Your role should be that of the big boss, the executive who organizes and manages big business. Your ambition should carve a niche for you in the financial world where wealth can be easily accrued. This number bestows strength and will, and by using these qualities you could easily become an outstanding athlete. The proper use of this vibration will bring you recognition in either the financial or sports world because, by embracing its gifts, you have the strength and determination to overcome all obstacles and attain your goals. 9 AS A MISSING NUMBER: You must become the universalist, the humanitarian whose primary concern is for the welfare of others. You should develop breadth of thinking, and universal love for others. Close personal ties may have to take second place to your first priority, which is sharing your spiritual knowledge with the world and inspiring those whose lives seem dark and hopeless. You must become an example for others through your compassionate and sympathetic nature. Allow no limits upon your thinking. Dare to dream the highest dream, and perform the impossible task. Become charitable, loving and understanding. SIX: THE LIFE OF EDGAR CAYCE. WE WILL DEMONSTRATE, through the life of the famous psychic Edgar Cayce, how the processes described in the previous chapters of this book can be implemented to delineate an individual’s life. Rather than begin at birth and work through his entire life, we have chosen some of the major events in Cayce’s biography. Through them we will establish the validity of the Divine Triangle as a blueprint of his life. We will present only basic biographical information because Edgar Cayce is well-known, and written material on his life is plentiful. Edgar Cayce was born near Hopkinsville, Kentucky, on March 18, 1877. Although poor and uneducated, he was to become a beloved figure known as the sleeping prophet. A deeply religious man, he lived a devout Christian life and used his remarkable psychic talents to benefit others. Putting himself into a trance, Cayce would diagnose the illnesses of those who consulted him, and then recommend treatments and cures. He also possessed the ability to read the akashic records. It is said that every sound, thought and vibration since the beginning of time is registered on these records, including the first sound vibration which called forth manifestation. Based on the akashic records of those individuals who applied for such a reading, he brought out information on their past lives that was useful in their present incarnation. In this way he helped thousands of people regain their health and conduct their lives in more constructive patterns. Edgar Cayce expressed his belief that the name indicates the soul’s place in evolution. He said in reading number 281 dash 31: "Each entity, each soul, is known in all the experience through its activities - as a name to designate it from another, it is not only then a material convenience, but it implies... a definite period in evolution of the experience of the entity in the material plane." In reading number 261 dash 15 he says: "As related to individuals these each vibrate to certain numbers according to their name, their birthdate... Then when these appear, they become either as strengths or as losses or as helps or as change… but... they are rather as the signs, or the omens; and may be given as warnings... in any manner that they may be constructive in the experience of the individual." In reading number 311 dash 3 he says: "In any influence, will... a self, the ego, the I AM... is the greater force to be dealt with, but as numbers do influence... a knowledge of same certainly gives an individual a foresight into relationships..." We chose Edgar Cayce to demonstrate the application of double digit numerology and the Divine Triangle because his life clearly demonstrates the truth of the above quotes. By delineating Edgar Cayce’s name and birthdate we arrive at his four personal numbers: Soul Number 12 or 3; Outer Personality Number 33; Path of Destiny Number 45 or 9 and his Life Lesson Number 44. Soul Number 12 or 3: This is a very high spiritual vibration. It represents a conscientious individual who is innately aware of our spiritual relationship to God and who has a great desire to help others. Through his ideals, Cayce was inspired to dedicate his life to the betterment of humanity. He had a heartfelt interest in all who sought his advice, and his greatest desire was to help them find health and happiness. He taught the value of prayer and meditation and practiced this in his own life. For many he was a living example of a truly spiritual human being. Outer Personality Number 33: 33 is a master number which carries an almost Christ-like vibration. In his outer physical life, Cayce worked constantly, giving both diagnostic and life readings through which he brought out the theory of reincarnation, and revealed knowledge of astrology and numbers as related to the lives of human beings. He interpreted the Bible as well. Because he was seen by many as a savior, he felt the need and obligation to work for the good of others, even though his own fortunes would suffer. Path of Destiny Number 45 or 9: This number indicates that his mission in life was highly spiritual and mystical. He was not satisfied with worldly success alone. This Path of Destiny Number signifies one who loves to teach and serve others. It endowed Cayce with the courage and fortitude to face the changes and emergencies in his life, giving him faith that everything would work out with God’s help and guidance. This number also indicates one who is willing to work hard, even at the expense of his own health. Cayce’s theme seemed to be: “Let me ever be a channel of blessings, today, now, to those I contact in every way.” The Life Lesson Number 44: This number, derived from the birthdate, indicates what a person should learn in this life. This master number 44 is called Atlas. In mythology Atlas supports the heavens on his shoulders. In other words, Cayce would take responsibility for others, attend faithfully to duty and make the best of any situation which had to be met. He possessed common sense and foresight in order to make fair judgments. He was very understanding in his dealings with others, anxious to please and help in any possible way. He believed that service was the way toward mastership, and his life and works are ample proof of this. To choose which numbers are important in the delineation of events in a lifetime, select those that coincide with the four personal numbers (in our example, 12 or 3, 33, 45 or 9 and 44). The personal numbers are activated whenever they are energized by corresponding numbers. Thus a 12 or 3 event would energize Cayce’s 12 or 3 Soul Number, as would any type of 3; a single 3, a 21, a 30, a 39, etc. Therefore any variation of 3, 6, 8 or 9 would activate the corresponding personal number; however, it would activate it according to the double digit variation. In addition, it seems that often one’s master numbers, e.g. Cayce’s 33 and 44, are triggered by any of the four master numbers: 11, 22, 33, 44 or by their base digits 2, 4, 6 and 8. To see how Cayce’s life is reflected in his numerological blueprint, we examine each nine-year cycle in two ways. First, we will look at the correlations between events in his life and the experiences under the major process and the minor process which are operating during each nine-year cycle. Secondly, we can see whether any of the events correspond with the personal year and the three four-month period numbers also operating during that time. We will discuss here only the most significant events of Cayce’s life. We will, however, list all the experiences under the major and minor process for each nine-year cycle; in addition we will list each personal year and that year’s division into the three four-month periods. You will then have before you all the temporary numbers which affected Cayce throughout his life, even though we will discuss here only the most significant events of his life. Age: Birth to Nine. To calculate the experiences of Edgar Cayce’s first nine years by the major process, (see figure 6) we will work with the number in the center of the square, 19 or 1, the number on the side of the triangle, 3, the number in the center of the triangle, 44, and the ages at each end of line AB, 0 and 9. 0 + 1 is 1. 9 minus 1 is 8. At ages 1 and 8, Cayce had a 19 or 1 experience. 0 + 3 is 3. 9 minus 3 is 6. At ages 3 and 6, Cayce had a 3 experience. 0 + 8 is 8. 9 minus 8 is 1. At ages 8 and 1, Cayce had a 44 experience. To calculate the experiences by the minor process, we work with the numbers in the center of the square, 19 or 1, on the side of the triangle, 3, and on the first line, 5, and the ages at either end of line AB. 0 + 5 is 5. 5 + 3 is 8. At age 5, Cayce had an 8 experience. 9 minus 5 is 4. 5 + 19 is 24 or 6. At age 4, Cayce had a 24 or 6 experience. We do not have much information about Cayce’s first nine years. We do know that, according to his mother, even as a small child he saw and talked with invisible playmates. At age four the death of a much loved grandfather proved to be a very emotional experience. A few months later he claimed that his grandfather appeared and talked with him. This occurred under a minor process 24 or 6 experience, a love and family vibration. On the period table, at age four all basic numbers are energized. Here are the calculations for the yearly periods from birth to nine. Ages Nine to Eighteen: To calculate the experiences of these years by the major process, we work with the number in the center of the square, 19 or 1, the number on the side of the triangle, 3, and the number in the center of the triangle, 44, and the age at each end of line BC, 9 and 18. 9 + 1 is 10. 18 minus 1 is 17. At ages 10 and 17, Cayce had a 19 or 1 experience. 9 + 3 is 12. 18 minus 3 is 15. At ages 12 and 15, Cayce had a 3 experience. 9 + 8 is 17. 18 minus 8 is 10. At ages 10 and 17, Cayce had a 44 experience. To calculate the experiences by the minor process, we work with the number in the center of the square, 19 or 1, the number on the side of the triangle, 3, the number on the line, 4, and the ages on each end of line BC, 9 and 18. 9 + 4 is 13. 4 + 19 is 23 or 5. At age 13, Cayce had a 23 or 5 experience. 18 minus 4 is 14. 4 + 3 is 7. At age 14, Cayce had a 7 experience. At age 10, in a 45 or 9 personal year, Cayce began work as a church sexton. This year corresponds to his Path of Destiny Number, 45 or 9, and the experiences of this particular time were indicative of his future path. At the age of 12 or 13, Cayce was playing in one of his favorite spots by a brook. He sat down to read the Bible which he always kept with him. He turned to the Book of Judges (13, verses 2 through 22) to read about the vision of Manoah and, while perusing the passage, he heard a strange sound, saw a bright light, and then heard a voice saying, “Your prayers have been heard; what would you ask that I may grant your wish?” Cayce answered: “Just that I may be helpful to others, especially children who are ill, and that I may love my fellow man.” The next day, he could not keep his mind on his school work. Because his spelling was unsatisfactory, his teacher made him stay after school and write a misspelled word on the blackboard five-hundred times. That night his father decided to drill him on the spelling homework, but Cayce did not do well. It was late and he was getting sleepy. Just then Edgar seemed to hear a voice within him saying: “Sleep a little and we may help you.” He laid his head on the spelling book and slept for a few minutes. When he awoke he knew how to spell every word in the entire book. This is his story of how universal consciousness came to him. A few days later he was hit by a baseball. He returned home, dazed, and asked his mother to make a certain poultice for the back of his head. She did, and in the morning he was well. This was his first insight into successful health prescriptions. During these two years, his basic Soul Number, 12 or 3, was being activated. At age 12, he had a major-process 3 experience on the blueprint, and at age 13, he was in a 39 or 3 personal year. During that 39 or 3 personal year, he experienced a 12 or 3 period number between November and March, which energized again his Soul Number, and illustrated graphically how his inner talents and abilities from past lifetimes were being filtered into his consciousness. At age fifteen Cayce quit school and went to work on a farm. At this time, he was also under a major-process 3 experience on the blueprint, which showed that his latent talents were being awakened. Perhaps a formal education would have disturbed his growing psychic talents. Also on the period table this occurred under a 17 or 8 four-month period. This relates to his Life Lesson Number, 44. Basically the 8 (a master number, 44, reduced) means that the serious business of the Life Lesson is being energized. 8 is a disciplinary number, and it means that work and responsibility are now necessary for accomplishment. Here are the calculations for the yearly periods nine to eighteen, which reflect the portion of Cayce’s life described above. Ages Eighteen to Twenty-seven: To calculate the experiences by the major process, we work with the number in the center of the square, 19 or 1; the number on the side of the triangle, 3; and the number in the center of the triangle, 44; and the ages at each end of line CD, 18 and 27. 18 + 1 is 19. 27 minus 1 is 26. At ages 19 and 26, Cayce had a 19 or 1 experience. 18 + 3 is 21. 27 minus 3 is 24. At ages 21 and 24, Cayce had a 3 experience. 18 + 8 is 26. 27 minus 8 is 19. At ages 19 and 26, Cayce had a 44 experience. To calculate the experiences by the minor process, we work with the number in the center of the square, 19 or 1; the number on the side of the triangle, 3; and the ages at each end of line CD, 18 and 27; and the number on the third line, 7. 18 + 7 is 25. 7 + 3 is 10 or 1. At age 25 Cayce had a 10 or 1 experience. 27 minus 7 is 20. 7 + 19 is 26 or 8. At age 20 Cayce had a 26 or 8 experience. At age 18, Cayce met Dwight L. Moody, an itinerant evangelist, whose advice changed the course of his life. The event occurred in a 44 personal year. By the minor process we find Cayce had a 26 or 8 experience at age 20, the year he fell in love and proposed marriage to Gertrude Evans. Not only does the 8 correspond with the Life Lesson Number (44 reduced), but also 26 or 8 is the number of karma. Their marriage was definitely karmic, as revealed in later readings which depicted their past incarnations together. It was destined for both of them to work out their former lives in their present relationship. Here are the calculations for the yearly periods, ages 18 to 27 which reflect that portion of Cayce’s life. When Cayce was 22, he obtained a job as a traveling salesman. This was during a 12 or 3 period. After some months he became ill and decided to return to Hopkinsville. He was unable to speak above a whisper, the story goes, and a traveling hypnotist, hearing of the case, suggested using hypnotism to determine the cause of the ailment. Cayce underwent hypnosis easily, and talked naturally while under its influence. He described his own condition as a partial paralysis of the vocal cords and also prescribed the cure. He said, “The body should increase circulation to the affected part for a short time.” To everyone’s surprise, his throat turned red, then redder, until Cayce said in a clear voice: “Suggest that the circulation return to normal and the body awaken.” This was a turning point in a technique that he was to develop and use countless times to help others. He was now 24 years old. He was operating under a major process 3 experience, activating his Soul Number, 12 or 3. There was also in operation a 17 or 8 period number which corresponded to his Life Lesson Number, 44. He moved to Bowling Green, Kentucky, at age 25, and took a position in a bookstore. Stories of his strange gift were spreading. At this time in his life he was asked to give a reading for a school superintendent’s five-year-old daughter. Her mind had stopped developing and she suffered various other ailments. Many doctors had been consulted but none could find a way to help the child. Cayce agreed to give a reading, and, while in trance, he related the cause and prescribed the treatment for the ailment. He found that the child had struck her spine when she stepped down from a carriage. This had caused an impingement of some nerves. After a few treatments she could talk again, and eventually she returned to normal. This was another turning point in Cayce’s life, as news of this remarkable case spread swiftly. Notice the minor-process 10 or 1 experience in indicating a turn for the better, at the same time as he was experiencing a 33 personal year which corresponded to his Outer Personality Number. Increased public attention would require increased responsibilities. Cayce married Gertrude Evans on June 17, 1903. He was 26. The wedding occurred during a 21 or 3 period number, relating to his Soul Number 12 or 3. He was also under a 44 experience on the blueprint, a number which ties in with his Life Lesson Number. In addition, his wedding date matches his Path of Destiny Number, 45 or 9. June 17, 1903 reduces to 6 + 17 + 13, equaling 36 or 9. All 9’s relate to emotional experiences, and the 36 9 particularly brings added responsibility. Ages 27 to 36: To calculate the experiences by the major process, we work with the number in the center of the square, 42 or 6; the number on the lower side of the triangle, 18 or 9; and the number in the center of the triangle, 44; and the ages at each end of line DE, 27 and 36. 27 + 6 is 33. 36 minus 6 is 30. At age 30 and 33, Cayce had a 42 or 6 experience. 27 + 9 is 36. 36 minus 9 is 27. At ages 27 and 36, Cayce had an 18 or 9 experience. 27 + 8 is 35. 36 minus 8 is 28. At ages 28 and 35, Cayce had a 44 experience. To calculate the experiences by the minor process, we work with the number in the center of the square, 42 or 6; the number on the lower side of the triangle, 18 or 9; the number on line DE, 1; and the ages at each end of line DE, 27 and 36. 27 + 1 is 28. 1 + 42 is 43 or 7. At age 28 Cayce had a 43 or 7 experience. 36 minus 1 is 35. 1 + 18 is 19 or 1. At age 35, Cayce had a 19 or 1 experience. On March 16, 1907, two days before Cayce’s thirtieth birthday, a son, Hugh Lynn, was born. This date falls under a 19 or 1 period number, a number which is known as a love number. Because it is a basic 1 it shows a new beginning coming into his life. As his thirtieth birthday arrived, he came into a 38 or 11 personal year with a 20 or 2 period. These two base digit numbers activate his two master numbers, his 33 Outer Personality Number and his 44 Life Lesson Number. This was a time of far-reaching importance, as the numbers energized most areas of his blueprint and number table. Also, at age 30, under the major process, we find Cayce under the influence of the 42 or 6 experience; the 6 corresponded to the base digit of his master number 33. Any 6 means some kind of domestic or home condition change. Not only did the 42 or 6 vibration operate in this relationship, but Hugh Lynn helped to maintain his father’s image in the world, thereby fulfilling the outer personality tie between the time of his birth and the period under which his father was operating at the time. (Note that there is no exact cutoff date between one period and another, as events can occur shortly before the new period begins.) Also, Hugh Lynn’s Life Lesson Number, 36 or 9, tied in with his father’s Path of Destiny Number 45 or 9. This has been confirmed over the years. From 1940 to the present, this son has been the prime factor in promoting the work of the Edgar Cayce Foundation, and in building the organization into the successful entity it now is. At age 33, an article about Cayce’s ability, published in the New York Times, gave him nationwide publicity. Not only did his age, 33, correspond to his Outer Personality Number at the time of this event, but he was also operating under a 17 or 8 period number, which tied in with his Life Lesson Number, 44. He was also working in a major process 42 or 6 experience, thus activating his Outer Personality Number again. He was working in the limelight now, and his public image became an issue in his life. He was learning the lessons that accompanied this unexpected fanfare. The following year a second child was born and died. His wife, Gertrude, became ill with tuberculosis. His readings saved her life and convinced Cayce of their value. This same year, at age 34, he was investigated by Dr. Munsterberg of Harvard University. These events all occurred during a 33 personal year, which is also his Outer Personality Number. He was required to fulfill a role others expected of him. Here are the calculations for the yearly periods, ages twenty-seven to thirty-six, which relate to the experiences of Cayce’s life described above. Ages 36 to 45: To calculate the experiences by the major process, we work with the number in the center of the square, 42 or 6; the number on the lower side of the triangle, 18/9; the number in the center of the triangle; 44; and the ages at each end of line EF, 36 and 45. 36 + 6 is 42. 45 minus 6 is 39. At ages 39 and 42, Cayce had a 42 or 6 experience. 36 + 9 is 45. 45 minus 9 is 36. At ages 36 and 45, Cayce had an 18 or 9 experience. 36 + 8 is 44. 45 minus 8 is 37. At ages 37 and 44, Cayce had a 44 experience. To calculate the experiences by the minor process, we work with the number in the center of the square, 42 or 6; the number on the lower side of the triangle, 18 or 9; the ages at each end of line EF, 36 and 45; and the number on line EF, 18 or 9. 36 + 9 is 45. 18 + 18 is 36 or 9. At age 45, Cayce had a 36 or 9 experience. 45 minus 9 is 36. 18 + 42 is 60 or 6. At age 36, Cayce had a 60 or 6 experience. The year Cayce was thirty-seven, his son Hugh Lynn, then six years old, injured his eyes while playing. Doctors recommended the removal of one eye and were apprehensive about saving the other. The little boy asked his father for a reading, which was given. A method was prescribed for saving his eyes and restoring sight. Following his father’s advice, Hugh Lynn recovered entirely; he still has very good eyesight today. This same year Cayce himself underwent an appendectomy. These events occurred under a major process 44 experience, which is his Life Lesson Number. In the last days before Cayce’s birthday in 1918, another son, Edgar Evans, was born. The date was February 9, 1918, which yielded a 30 or 3 Life Lesson Number for the new child. Cayce was then ending a 39 or 3 personal year and a 21 or 3 period number and entering a 24 or 6 period number, which tied in his Soul and Outer Personality Numbers during that period of time. With a 30 or 3 Life Lesson, the new son’s destiny was woven in with his father’s Soul Number. We have found that quite often families express the same number patterns. Here are the calculations for the yearly periods, ages 36 to 45, which relate to the experiences of Cayce’s life described above. Ages 45 to 54: To calculate the experiences by the major process, we work with the number in the center of the square, 42 or 6; the number on the lower side of the triangle, 18 or 9; the number in the center of the triangle, 44; and the ages at each end of line FG, 45 and 54. 45 + 6 is 51. 54 minus 6 is 48. At ages 45 and 51, Cayce had a 42 or 6 experience. 45 + 9 is 54. 54 minus 9 is 45. At ages 45 and 54, Cayce had an 18 or 9 experience. 45 + 8 is 53. 54 minus 8 is 46. At ages 46 and 53, Cayce had a 44 experience. To calculate the experiences by the minor process, we work with the number in the center of the square, 42 or 6; the number on the lower side of the triangle, 18 or 9; the ages at each end of line FG, 45 and 54; and the number on line FG, 5. 45 + 5 is 50. 5 + 18 is 23 or 5. At age 50, Cayce had a 23 or 5 experience. 54 minus 5 is 49. 5 + 42 is 47 or 11. At age 49, Cayce had a 47 or 11 experience. At age 46, after much traveling, Cayce returned to Selma, Alabama, to give readings as his life work. At this time he obtained the secretarial services of Gladys Davis. That same year he moved to Dayton, Ohio, to work with Arthur Lammers, to give readings on mind and soul, as well as illness. Thus began his life readings with information on reincarnation, numerology, astrology and similar subjects. The year was 1923. Cayce was working under his Life Lesson Number, 44, activated by a 44 experience under the major process on the blueprint. Cayce’s readings advised that a move to Virginia Beach, Virginia, would be helpful in many ways. There he could build a hospital to give the treatments prescribed. More and more people became interested in Cayce’s work. Morton Blumenthal, a man with much influence, made arrangements for the family to move to Virginia Beach. Cayce was forty-eight years old. During this period a major process experience on the blueprint was in action, activating his Outer Personality Number, 33. Because of the outer evidence of his abilities, he was aided by a prestigious individual. The hospital opened on November 11, 1928, a day with a 42 or 6 vibration. Cayce was also under a major-process 42 or 6 experience at that time, which activated his Outer Personality Number, 33. The 42 or 6 is a strongly religious number oriented toward helping others. In 1931 Cayce realized that the hospital was failing and subsequently had to be discontinued. This was one of the saddest times of Cayce’s life, for his hopes had been so high. Cayce was in a 35/8 personal year which activated his 44 Life Lesson Number. Although he experienced some disappointments that year, it was also a year which gave birth to an event perhaps more significant than he had imagined: the incorporation of the Association for Research and Enlightenment in July. This event occurred under the number 22 in Cayce’s chart (period number for July to November 1931). This is the master number of the material plane, showing a down-to-earth and business-like vibration. Although only a few hundred members were enrolled in the Association in 1931, it now has over 10,000 active participants. Here are the calculations for the yearly periods, ages 45 to 54, which relate to the experiences of Cayce’s life discussed above. Ages 54 to 63: To calculate the experiences by the major process, we work with the number in the center of the square, 35 or 8; the number on the side of the triangle, 23 or 5; the number in the center of the triangle, 44; and his age at each end of line GH, 54 and 63. 54 + 8 is 62. 63 minus 8 is 55. At ages 55 and 62, Cayce had a 35 or 8 experience. 54 + 5 is 59. 63 minus 5 is 58. At ages 58 and 59, Cayce had a 23 or 5 experience. 54 + 8 is 62. 63 minus 8 is 55. At ages 55 and 62, Cayce had a 44 experience. To calculate the experiences by the minor process, we work with the number in the center of the square, 35 or 8; the number on the side of the triangle, 23 or 5; the number on the line GH, 4; and the ages at each end of line GH, 54 and 63. 54 + 4 is 58. 4 + 35 is 39/3. At age 58, Cayce had a 39 or 3 experience. 63 minus 4 is 59. 4 + 23 is 27 or 9. At age 59, Cayce had a 27 or 9 experience. When Cayce was 55, the family moved again, this time to a house on Arctic Circle. This was to be his permanent home for the rest of his life. It was there, in June of 1932, that the first Congress of the Association was held, an annual event that has continued to this day. We can see that it was a karmic experience that the first congress occurred during a 36 or 9 year which activated Cayce’s Path of Destiny number, 9, and his Life Lesson Number, 44. Mrs. Cayce’s mother died the same year that Edgar Evans Cayce entered college. When Cayce was 60, his father died. When he was 62, a man named Thomas Sugrue came to live with the Cayce family. Although Mr. Sugrue was ill, he wrote a biography of Edgar Cayce after living with him for 2 years. The book is called There Is a River and was published in 1942. When Cayce was 63 years old, an office was added to the Cayce residence, providing him with the privacy he needed for his readings. It is significant that the yearly table showed his Life Lesson Number, 44, overshadowing the whole year, while the period numbers, 5, 22 and 8, indicated change (5), then great progress materially (22) and finally the carrying out of the basic 8, (his Life Lesson number 44 reduced) which vibrationally pervaded many dominant periods throughout his life. By that time, Hugh Lynn had taken over management of the Association, and Cayce was quite content to be free of that responsibility. Here are the calculations for the yearly periods, ages 54 to 63, which relate to the experiences of Cayce’s life mentioned above. Ages 63 to 72: To calculate the experiences by the major process, we work with the number in the center of the square, 35 or 8; the number on the side of the triangle, 23 or 5; the number in the center of the triangle, 44; and the age at each end of line HI, 63 and 72. 63 + 8 is 71. 72 minus 8 is 64. At age 64 (and 71, had he not died) he had a 35 or 8 experience. 63 + 5 is 68. 72 minus 5 is 67. At age 67 (and 68, had he not died) he had a 23 or 5 experience. 63 + 8 is 71. 72 minus 8 is 64. At age 64 (and 71 had he not died) he had a 44 experience. To calculate the experiences by the minor process, we work with the number in the center of the square, 35 or 8; the number on the side of the triangle, 23 or 5; the number on line HI, 7; and the ages on each end of line HI, 63 and 72. 63 + 7 is 70. 7 + 23 is 30 or 3. At age 70 Cayce would have had a 30 or 3 experience. 72 minus 7 is 65. 7 + 35 is 42 or 6. At age 65, Cayce had a 42 or 6 experience. According to the major process calculations, Cayce’s basic number 8 (44 reduced) is activated twice, indicating that this was a time for him to experience his Life Lesson. At age 65 the Search for God books became available. These books are still used by all Association's study groups both in the United States and abroad. Here are the calculations for the yearly periods, ages 63 to 67, which relate to the experiences of Cayce’s life mentioned above. A personal year runs from birthdate to birthdate; thus Cayce was still in his 1944 year when he died. The actual death date was January 3, 1945, a 23 or 5 experience. Cayce’s last reading was given September 17, 1944, during a 26 or 8 period. On January 3, 1945, Cayce’s work in the physical body was completed. He died at 67 years and 10 months of age, in a 39 or 3 personal year and a 21 or 3 period number, which shows that the transition occurred under his Soul Number, 12 or 3. Even after his death, Cayce’s influence is still felt by many. Some of his predictions have been fulfilled; some have not yet occurred. The Association for Research and Enlightenment continues to thrive and in 1956 was able to buy back the old hospital building in Virginia Beach. This is now the location of the headquarters and it is open to the public. In 1975 a beautiful new library was opened, dedicated to the work of the Association. Within its doors can be found all the information from Cayce’s readings, sorted and filed in encyclopedic form, thus making available the vast information which came through the instrumentality of one man: Edgar Cayce. SEVEN: BIBLE SYMBOLOGY. THE BIBLE is a veritable mine of number symbology. Both the Old and New Testaments reveal, by use of numbers, depth of meaning and hidden concepts which commonly escape the casual reader. The Zohar, a collection of mystical kabbalistic writings, states that, The Universe was created by 3 forms of expression - Numbers, Letters and Words. The letters in all alphabets represent definite powers. To study the vibratory value of numbers and letters is to study the divine creative energies in various degrees of manifestation. Every name in the Bible describes a deeper meaning regarding the person or place to which it applies. Similarly certain words are made to have hidden significance. Old Testament. To read through the Old Testament, the Torah, Kabbalah, and other sacred Hebraic writings is to become well aware of how the Hebrews used the science of names and numbers in their number-letter code. By this code they wished to obscure their meanings from the uninitiate, and at the same time to reveal their inner teachings to the initiate. Each letter of the Hebrew alphabet has several meanings - for example the letter Aleph (A) means life breath, power, source; while the letter Beth (B) means house, shelter; and so on with every letter. The symbology allowed hidden teachings to be evident to those who knew how to read the deeper message contained in the names of all persons and places described. Scholars could also penetrate the mask of allegory and receive or give divine guidance through numbers and letters. For example, the story of Cain slaying Abel is about fraternal rivalry. But symbolically, the name Cain means body and materialistic human desires, while Abel stands for the soul and idealistic human nature. These characters were so named to warn that materialism would kill spiritual ideas; hence Cain was said to have killed Abel (Genesis 4 verse 8). Many biblical characters who reached periods of spiritual growth and development in their lives were given new names by divine direction. Thus Abram became Abraham (Genesis 17 verse 5) and Sara became Sarah (Genesis 17 verse 15). In both cases, the Hebrew Heh (H), a letter meaning light and having a vibration of 9, was added to the name to denote the attainment of spiritual light. New Testament writers also made name changes to point out an individual’s spiritual progress. For example, Saul became Paul after his conversion to Christianity (Acts 9 verses 1 to 22, and 13 verse 9). This symbolized the removal of the Hebrew Shin (S) and its replacement with the Hebrew Peh (P). Shin means tooth or fang of a serpent. Peh means mouth. After this change, Saul became Paul, the spokesman for Christ (Acts 13 verse 9). As Proverbs 22 verse 1 states, a good name is rather to be chosen than great riches. A further use of numbers in biblical language involves recounting the number of years a person lived, begat and died. These numbers did not refer to the person’s age in years, but rather to progress in spiritual attainment. The meaning of the name of the begotten indicated the development of a characteristic. Cycles also were indicated by the generations of descent. For example, from Adam to Noah there were 9 generations, and from Noah to Abraham there were also 9 generations. That made Noah the ninth from Adam, and Abraham the ninth from Noah. Adam had three sons—Cain (body), Abel (soul) and Seth (replacement for Abel to carry the spiritual light). In a parallel situation, Noah also had three sons: Shem (spirit), Ham (physical nature) and Japhet (mental nature). These names represented the growth of humanity in consciousness after 18 cycles of change. Abram meant father, while Abraham implied the added faith in God which he had come to realize. At 99 years of age, Abraham begat Isaac, whose name meant joy in divine sonship. Isaac begat Jacob, whose name meant illumination through unfolding soul. Jacob’s 12 sons (Genesis 35 verses 22 to 27) refer to the twelve types of consciousness represented by the 12 character types in the signs of the zodiac. To study the whole Bible in this light is to have a lifetime of fascinating discovery. It can be said that Hebrew, more than any other language, offers us a great opportunity to study the profound power and significance of names. Here is a short list of keywords for the numbers in biblical times: 0. Source before manifestation. 1. God, the one immutable divine unity. 2. Duality; human, not divine. 3. Attributes of 1 + 2 equals 3; union of divine and human qualities. 4. The idea of solidity—steadfastness. 5. Humanity with its five developed senses. 6. Equilibrium, fitness, peace. 7. Humanity’s septenary nature, cyclic fullness. 8. Accumulation, strength, power, augmentation. 9. Consolidation, conservation, humaneness. (The true mission of the 9 is to serve as a minister of God on earth.) 10. God and humanity, father-mother-deity, completion. Modern numerology has grown partly from these concepts. The numbers and letters reflect meanings from the past coupled with many added spiritual interpretations. Meanings of our names today have deep significance and can be delineated letter by letter and number by number as we attain cycles of expression year by year in our own lives. These are fully explained in earlier chapters of this book. 0. GENESIS, which means “first cause,” relates to the primordial source. The first few verses of Genesis pertain only to the one God, as divine creator, who brings the world into existence out of the void, or from the unmanifest. 1. LET THERE BE LIGHT (Genesis 1 verse 3). The first spiritual emanation was light. If our soul continues to follow the light, we will get back to our source. 1 stands for a beginning, a new start and unity. 2. AND GOD DIVIDED the light from the darkness (Genesis 1 verse 4). In 2 there is duality, day and night, heaven and earth, man and woman and all pairs of opposites. Thus the development of choice began between good and evil, true and false and positive and negative. Pythagoras says: 2 is the imperfect condition into which being falls, when it becomes detached from the monad, God. Manly Hall in The Mystical Christ, states: When the eyes of the both are opened, the sight of the soul is obscured. 3. THE FIRST TRINITY; Adam and Eve and child. Thus 3 means manifestation and expansion. Other trinities survive in our world - body, soul, and spirit, and the 3 divisions of mind—conscious, subconscious and super-conscious. 4. MANY BIBLICAL REFERENCES are taken from the cycles of the natural world. The symbology of the four seasons and four winds is embodied in Ezekiel’s vision of the 4 living creatures: the face of a man, the face of a lion, the face of an ox and the face of an eagle (Ezekiel 1 verses 5 to 14). These four relate to the four fixed signs of the zodiac. The four elements appear symbolically as the birds of the air, the fish of the sea, the fire of the Lord and the products of the earth. Genesis 2 verses 10 to 14 tells of the river out of Eden which parted into 4 heads. The rivers were named Pison, Gihon, Hiddekel and Euphrates. Metaphysically these names mean spirit (fire), breath (air), body (earth) and blood (water). These symbolize spirit, mind, body and soul which are the 4 principles that vitalize the material body during the earth life. 5. METAPHYSICALLY a river represents vital force. Human beings are the container of this force, as a garden symbolizes the body. The river of Genesis 2 verses 10 to 14, described under number 4, represents the flow of humanity itself throughout the earth, which divides and divides until it covers all the earth. The 5 is the number of humanity with our five developed senses. The five senses are introduced in the early chapters of Genesis to indicate that the senses are essential in human creation; and therefore 5 is the number of humanity. Five plays an important part in the story of David and Goliath: and David chose five smooth stones out of the brook” and David took a stone and smote the Philistine Goliath in the forehead. The stone sunk into the forehead and he fell to the ground, (First Samuel 17 verse 40). The 5 stones represent the spiritualization of David’s senses. David believed in the indwelling God of love and had learned to depend upon the spiritual power within himself. According to a mystical legend, when David touched the five stones they became as one stone, thus combining the total powers of his senses. The name Goliath means material power; thus the story is meant to demonstrate the power of the spiritual over the material. 6. THE PREPARATIONS for the emergence of humanity had all been made during the 5 days of creation, so on the sixth day, God made human beings. In the image of God created He him, male and female created He them (Genesis 1 verse 27). So 6 is associated with generation, motherhood, fatherhood, domesticity and service. Home, family and children are the concerns of 6; human relationships and love abound. Moses, the first lawgiver, patterned the Ten Commandments after the Lord’s example of creating the universe in 6 days. 6 days shalt thou labor and do all thy work (Exodus 20 verse 9). Therefore 6 is related to labor and service, as shown by the sixth sign of the zodiac, Virgo. Through love, the sixth sense is to be developed as people demonstrate their godliness. The Book of Ruth is keyed to the number 6 and to love. In Ruth 3 verse 15, Boaz gives Ruth 6 measures of barley, symbolic of love and protection. 7. IS THE PRINCIPLE NUMBER in the Bible; it is used innumerable times (some say over 360) throughout both Old and New Testaments. But the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord thy God... For in six days the Lord made heaven and earth... and rested the seventh day; wherefore the Lord blessed the seventh day and hallowed it (Exodus 20:10-11). One of the most profound examples of the use of the symbolic number 7 is related to the fall of Jericho in the Book of Joshua, 6 verses 1 to 20: And the Lord said unto Joshua: And ye shall compass the city... and go round about the city once. Thus shalt thou do six days... And the priests shall bear before the ark seven trumpets of rams’ horns: and the seventh day ye shall compass the city seven times, and the priests shall blow with the trumpets. When they make a long blast with the ram’s horn and when ye hear the sound of the trumpet, all the people shall shout with a great shout, and the wall of the city shall fall down flat. It becomes evident that the fall of Jericho was not by warfare but rather was by the principle of the 7. Victory was achieved by means of the positive vibration of sound which had been built up to a tremendous power. 8. THE MYSTERY of the 8 is that of eternal and continuous spiral motion, which is constant throughout the universe. The life force currents sweep through the body in the form of a figure 8, following the cerebro-spinal and the sympathetic nervous systems, like radiations of light. This is why in deep meditation one sees a real light within. The infinity symbol, the horizontal 8, means as above, so below. It is a symbol of power. In Genesis 17 verse 10 the rite and covenant of circumcision was to be performed on the eighth day of a man child’s life. This was considered one of the most important covenants between God and humanity. 9. IS THE ULTIMATE, containing the forces of all the other numbers. It stands for a complete cycle of growth. The nine generations from Adam to Noah and from Noah to Abraham indicate stages of growth and development. Noah was the ninth from Adam, and Abraham was the ninth from Noah. When Abram received his covenant from God and his new name, Abraham, he was ninety and nine years old (Genesis 17 verses 1 to 5). Symbolically, his age reduces to a 9, to indicate that this was a period of time in which a spiritual cycle had been completed. The addition of the Hebrew Heh (H) to Abram’s name carries a 9 vibration as well. New Testament. In the first 4 books of the New Testament, Matthew, Mark, Luke and John, the writers express their Christian teachings mostly by allegory and parable. These are meant to be interpreted in various ways; some apply to the cosmic world as a whole, some to our solar system, some to the entire human race and some to individuals. Since a person is called the microcosm within the macrocosm, an individual represents, in miniature, all that is, was and will be. As in the Old Testament, symbology is used also to point out significant hidden meanings in names and numbers. The art and science of numerology is one of the most obvious methods employed, although a deep understanding of the basic meanings of numbers is necessary for a complete unravelling of inner meanings. The New Testament describes the path of faith. Faith is the conscious acceptance of wisdom and love. When faith is strong the mind is at peace and the body is free of tension. Faith is a mystical conviction that God is presently a power within the individual. The instinct to believe is as strong as the instinct to survive, impelling one to search for a philosophy to sustain one’s hopes and desires on the journey through life. It is said that primitive people were mystics by instinct, and that modem people are mystics by intuition. In Christian teachings Christ is the revelation of the love and forgiveness of God. The Sermon on the Mount (Matthew 5 verse 17) is the code of mystic Christianity, and it is in the faithful heart that the Sermon is understood. The 12 disciples of Jesus represent an extension of the twelve tribes of Israel. The 72 other disciples correspond to the six elders chosen from each of the original 12 tribes. The Pythagorean dodecahedron (a twelve-sided symmetrical figure which can be compared to the 12 lines of the Divine Triangle) represents the universe as related to humanity. This indicates that the individual has within himself the potential of the 12 powers as they relate to the inherent attributes within the 12 signs of the zodiac. The search for knowledge is motivated by the desire to understand the self in relation to God. The New Testament writers symbolically applied all the basic numbers to express their ideas, but made more references to specific numbers relating to the seven-fold human body, to the divine potential of the human mind and soul and to spiritual destiny. Many years elapsed between the writing of the Old and New Testaments which allowed time for much expansion of human consciousness. As a result, many more meanings for the numbers had accrued. The use of symbolism had grown and was liberally employed as a means of revelation. 1 IS THE ZERO made more manifest; it is the self, independence and unity. In the beginning was the Word; and the Word was God (John 1 verse 1). 1 is the basis or cause of a beginning; it is a start, a creative idea for expression. 2 ENCOMPASSES ALL PAIRS of opposites: male and female, spirit and matter, heaven and hell. No man can serve two masters; ye cannot serve God and Mammon (Matthew 6 verse 24). There is always a choice to be made between the pairs of opposites; thus we are warned that in duality there is danger. A house divided against itself shall not stand (Matthew 12 verse 25). But, if two agree, it shall be done (Matthew 18 verse 19). 3 SYMBOLIZES THE TRINITY, triad and trine; the 3 dimensions. In a larger sense, the 3 stands for multiplication and growth. Three of the disciples went with Jesus into the garden of Gethsemane. They were Peter, James and John; these 3 stand for light, life and love. And Jesus went apart and prayed 3 times... each time He returned to find them asleep. The inner meaning is that Jesus felt that light, life and love were forsaking Him, as He said in His prayer: Father, let this cup pass from me; nevertheless, Thy will be done (Matthew 26 verses 37 to 45; Mark 14 verses 32 to 41). Jesus asked Peter 3 times: Lovest thou me? (John 21 verses 15 to 17). The three inquiries refer to love on the 3 planes of consciousness - the conscious mind, the subconscious mind and the super-conscious mind. If two or three are gathered together in my name, there am I in the midst of them (Matthew 18 verse 20). This also refers to the 3 parts of the mind, declaring that if all agree, the Christ power will prevail. The story of Jesus is a story of 3’s. He rose after 3 days and he was denied thrice by Peter. The fact that Jesus was crucified between two thieves is symbolic of the divided system of belief which has stolen many of the true teachings. Christ sat down with the twelve, a higher vibration of 3. Judas bargained for 30 pieces of silver, again a vibration of 3. 4 STANDS FOR LAW and order, measurement, the physical and material realms, reason, logic, the square and the cross. Whenever a number is made up of straight lines, it symbolizes the divine principle; therefore the 4 and the 7 are called sacred numbers. The symbols are the square and the cross. The cross is always a sacred symbol wherever found. Traditionally, the equal-armed cross represented man. With the coming of Christ, the horizontal line of the cross was raised from the umbilical center to the heart center. It is not necessarily a Christian symbol; other spiritual leaders have died on the cross such as Krishna of India, Thamus of Syria, Hesus of the Druids, Mithra of Persia and Quexalcotl of Mexico. And He was there in the wilderness forty days tempted by Satan; and was with the wild beasts, and the angels ministered unto him (Mark 1 verse 13). 40 is used in a Scripture to indicate a completed cycle of retreat from things of the world in preparation for something better to follow. On the morning of the fourth day after he died, Lazarus (meaning lack of spiritual understanding) lay in the tomb, bound hand and foot, with grave clothes wound around him. The fourth dawning day is when spiritual understanding shall release us from the grave of materialism and bring awakening to the one light. At the fourth watch, just as gray dawn was breaking, they beheld one walking on the water (Matthew 14 verse 25). This refers metaphorically to the dawning of Aquarian Age, the age of community. 5 STANDS FOR MEDIATION, understanding and judgment. The ancients represented the world by the number 5, the explanation being that in 5 are represented the four elements earth, water, fire and air, plus the fifth essence, ether or spirit. Five became the number of humanity with the five developed senses. It is the great work of human beings to gain control over the five senses, after which the sixth sense, intuition develops. The five wounds of Christ symbolize the suffering endured while in the flesh, which leads us to turn to God. In the parable of the five wise and the five foolish virgins (Matthew 25 verse 3), they that were foolish took their lamps and took no oil with them. But the wise took oil in their vessels with their lamps. The oil relates to the anointed, or those who had light. Human beings can choose the light or reject it by their actions. Interestingly, the word oil is a 9-powered word which means a completed cycle of attainment. 6 IS THE NUMBER OF BALANCE, harmony, cooperation, marriage, connubiality and beauty. And there were set there 6 water pots of stone (John 2 verse 6) for the wedding feast. A wedding represents love (as does the number 6) at its most blissful state in earthly consciousness. The 6 expresses universal love, for out of the sorrows of personal love, the soul awakens to the higher life which leads to illumination or adept ship. Jesus’s first miracle changed six pots of water to wine. 7 IS THE NUMBER OF REST, cessation but not ceasing, safety, and the full measure of the triad and the quaternary. One of the greatest heritages from the Christian Scriptures is the sevenfold path of the Lord’s prayer. The seven statements express the triad and the quaternary (Matthew 6 verses 9 to 13): 1. Our Father which art in heaven, 2. Hallowed be Thy Name. 3. Thy kingdom come, Thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. 4. Give us this day our daily bread, and 5. Forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. 6. Lead us not into temptation, 7. But deliver us from evil. The final statement (“For Thine is the kingdom, and the power and the glory, forever”) was added much later to symbolize return to the heavenly state. 8 STANDS FOR INVOLUTION AND EVOLUTION, for cycles of ebb and flow, infinity, rhythm, advancement, strength and confidence. The 8 is not a primary number in the New Testament. Rather, we find the 8 figures heavily in the eight-fold path of the Buddha and in occult literature. 9 REFERS TO COMPLETION, attainment, fulfillment, regeneration and revelation. Many words in the Bible are used for their symbolic meanings and teachings mystically concealed. Bread and wine are usually linked together. Bread is a 3-powered word; wine is a 6-powered word; together they form a symbol of the 9-power of regeneration. Thus the serving of bread and wine means that one is to partake of a regenerative process when taking communion. In the Book of Revelation there are two numbers whose meanings have caused much discussion. These two numbers, the 666 and the 144,000 both vibrate to a 9. The 144,000 who were sealed as members of the Tribes of Israel refers to developed or saved humanity. The seal refers to the protective sign in their foreheads (Revelations 9 verse 4). The 666, described as the number of the beast (Revelations 13 verse 18), refers to humanity functioning at the materialistic unregenerated level. Thus these two numbers mystically refer to the evolution of humanity, either as lost (666) or saved (144,000). Humanity, symbolically called the hand of God, demonstrates the same principle. Hand is a 9-powered word and refers to humanity as one of God’s helpers in bringing forth His Kingdom. The nine statements of blessing in the Sermon on the Mount, which show a completed cycle, represent the essence of the New Testament teaching that the greatest of all power is love. Love is a 9-powered word. He that loveth not knoweth not God, for God is love (First John 4 verse 8). God is love, and he that dwelleth in love, dwelleth in God, and God in him (First John 4 verse 16). In the ninth hour - the hour of prayer - Christ on the cross said, “It is finished” (John 19 verse 30). The numbers 12 and 13 hold a special place in both the Old and New Testaments. 12. THERE WERE 12 Tribes of Israel who were the sons of Jacob. When Jacob gave his blessing to his twelve sons, he was referring not only to twelve individuals, but to the development of 12 attributes to be awakened in the human soul. These paralleled the 12 characteristics of the 12 signs of the zodiac (Genesis 49 verses 1 to 28). The work of these 12 sons dominated most of the Old Testament. Each tribe expressed the qualities of one sign of the zodiac and responded to a certain number. No tribe was wholly good or bad. These 12 signs and their corresponding numbers are operative in the lives of every individual, for each person indeed is a miniature universe. Jesus chose to have twelve apostles. These also relate in character to the twelve signs of the zodiac to make a complete gathering of types of people in the inner circle of followers of Jesus. Thus the vibrational force under the number 12 belongs to the developed soul who has accumulated unusual inner strength through many and varied experiences. 13 IS A NUMBER of special significance. Note that there were twelve apostles, but Jesus, the Christ, made a thirteenth member at the last supper. 12 is the number of solar months in the year, but 13 is the number of lunar months. While the solar vibrations are positive and creative in type, the lunar vibrations are negative and receptive in type. Each, as a reflection of God, is equally important. 13 means either death through degeneration, or life and attainment through regeneration. There are no halfway measures in 13; it requires all or nothing. If 13 is your number, face it and win! “Choose ye this day whom ye will serve” (Joshua 24 verse 15). In Deuteronomy 30 verse 16, Moses said: “See, I have set before thee this day life and good - or death and evil - therefore choose life, and both thou and thy seed shall live.” Incarnation in the flesh represents the soul’s burial in matter, where it loses the power it originally had in the ethereal realm where it was created to be a companion to God. Eating of the Tree of Knowledge of Good and Evil leads to spiritual, not physical, death. When the soul turns from God to self it figuratively dies. We wander about on earth in the flesh, as prodigal sons and daughters, victims of spiritual amnesia. The prodigal, even as you and I, went from the father’s home of his own free will; the father did not send him. Both the Old and the New Testaments contain numerous instances of the use of numerological symbols in the form of parable and allegory. Because every number and letter has a dual meaning, hidden messages are discernible to readers who understand the number-letter codes employed in biblical times. In addition, there are 3 levels of meaning or knowledge which the reader can acquire. The first level comes through the conscious mind and applies to the material or physical world. The second level is absorbed through the subconscious mind and is acquired by means of parables and symbols. The third level deals with revelations on the super-conscious plane of thought and affirms that we must rediscover who we are from within. The Bible is the story of humanity and its generations (growth and attainment), of its degeneration (the prodigal who left his father’s house forgetful of his divinity) and of its regeneration through the possible path of return to the consciousness within which proclaims: “Thy Will be done.” PART 2: DOUBLE-DIGIT DELINEATIONS. YOUR WAY OF SUCCESS and happiness is hidden in your name and birthdate, as well as the ways to overcome the difficulties found there. These paths must be hunted out, understood and explained when analyzing a number chart, because the way to overcome obstacles lies alongside the indicators of success and happiness. It is always a question of action and reaction, whether the positive or the negative choice is taken. When you understand that you have choices, and you know what they are, you can conduct your life in such a way as to attain any goal you set for yourself. It is important that you choose a goal and then examine the way your cosmic gifts have prepared you for its achievement. The meanings of the single digits are explicit; when the single digits are combined to form the double digits, they provide a more complete picture of how you will express your talents. The double digits show patterns of experience; they indicate destiny and point the way to success. These facets of your character cannot be discovered in detail except by careful consideration of the double numbers produced by your name and birthdate. This is primarily a book on numerology, but since we use the double digits up through 78, which is the number of cards in the Tarot deck, we are including brief excerpts of the Tarot philosophy as a further dimension in understanding the numbers. The Tarot keys symbolize ways of determining the strengths and weaknesses of dynamic life forces. Rich in symbolism, the Tarot has from ancient times been used to help people understand the laws of the universe and our relation to these laws. The 22 keys of the Major Arcana relate a story of our lives, of how we are constituted and what our possibilities are. If we all studied and followed these laws, our lives would improve in consciousness and inner security. The 56 minor keys explain the many phases of human life and symbolize ways to face our dilemmas. The Tarot also relates to areas of the zodiac, and for those students who wish to plumb the depths of astrology, we have included in the delineations the astrological assignments for each of the 78 numbers. In fact, the sciences of numerology, astrology and the Tarot coincide and confirm each other so perfectly that we have found it almost impossible to analyze a chart of any kind without somehow including concepts from each science to enhance our understanding of the chart. In their most exalted use, these three sciences will synthesize the knowledge contained in their rich symbolism, so that we may apply it in our lives toward understanding our relationship with God. How to Read Your Number. Suppose your number is 32 or 5: read the delineation for the double number first, then read the delineation for the single digit that it reduces to. Keep in mind that it is the 2 working through the 3 to achieve the base number 5, which is synthesized in the 32 or 5 delineation. A 41 or 5 is an entirely different 5 vibration, with a 1 working through a 4 to achieve the base number 5. A number always has the same meaning, no matter where it appears in your chart, but the expression of its consciousness is determined by its position as your Soul, Outer Personality, Path of Destiny or Life Lesson Number. Therefore it is important to consider where the number is operating. If the vibration is your Soul Number, then you already possess those qualities; however, if it is your Life Lesson Number, you do not possess these qualities but are here to learn them. The numbers on the lines of the blueprint represent energies that will be activated at the time indicated. The same is true of the personal year number, the period number and the personal months. Realize that the numbers indicate an energy which, when activated by your life pattern, will be molded into the space in which you find it. Work with the number in that space and use it for your fullest realization. If the number is your Soul Number, this is what you already are. If it is your Outer Personality Number, this is how others see you. If it is your Path of Destiny Number, this is what you must do. If it is your Life Lesson Number, this is what you must leant. If the base number of the vibration you are working under matches the base number of one of your 4 personal numbers, then read your personal number as well as the variation. For example, if one of your personal numbers is a 37 or 1, and you are temporarily under a 28 or 1, read both numbers. ONE: THE MAJOR ARCANA. 1 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are independent! You dislike restraint of any kind and need to feel free from all encumbrances, so that your strong individuality may be expressed. You are here to build your own unique personality, which you can do only by exercising your will. As a result, you become a dominant force in any group to which you belong. Recognizing that you are a natural leader, other people will look to you for guidance and strength, so you will probably be at the head of your organization, as a business executive, supervisor or club president. You need to be first and best at whatever you do. Since you have a pioneering instinct, you are usually first, and because you have the courage to assert yourself, you are often the best. You will be a loner in some respects, because your assertiveness tends to alienate all but emotionally secure or dependent types. You will learn to make your own decisions and stand by them, regardless of what others think. Your leadership qualities set you apart and make you acutely aware of the “weight of those splendid chains;” this is the responsibility borne by those in charge. You will meet many new and different kinds of people in your