to emotional situations that arise now. Do not bemoan your fate; work on your sense of humor and try to see, from a detached point of view, the frailties of human nature. Your happiness depends on your integrity. You may experience many ups and downs under this vibration; therefore, you would be wise to find a creative outlet to express these moods constructively. Acting, music, poetry or painting are good outlets. There can be separations and disappointments in love relationships; those you love may be absent for a time. Expect some delays. If this is a negative vibration, your fluctuating moods could bring on confusion in deciding what to do. Use the experiences of this cycle for growth. The wisdom you gain here should be made available to those around you who need kind words and a gentle heart. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Three of Swords. Three swords pierce a heart. They look like crosses, suggesting that those who bear their crosses bravely become more sympathetic and tolerant of others. The heart is also a symbol of charity. The clouds indicate that the brighter side is hidden and that all your natural attributes are not immediately apparent. There is a need to develop spiritual discernment. If negative, self-pity is your weakness. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Second decan Libra. Perseverance, integrity and the drive to achieve are important attributes of this decan of Libra. You have vitality and a sense of humor. You are a humanitarian who will work to improve conditions that seem unfair. You are honest and faithful in your dealings with others and often give them the benefit of the doubt. Sometimes this results in your own heartbreak. You would rather suffer yourself, though, than cause injustice for others. You can appear aloof, but at heart you are keenly sensitive. 58/4 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are a logical thinker and a skillful worker. A career in medicine or metaphysics is possible as this number is related to sight and insight. You are introspective and you tend to analyze a problem very thoroughly before you decide to act. You are dependable and cautious, and you use your energies carefully for constructive purposes only. People respect you for your honesty and fairness. You have a keen sense of justice, yet you believe in mercy. You want your life to be orderly and conventional because you believe in tradition and discipline; however, you will enjoy life and its pleasures. You are charming, affectionate, careful, and yet emotionally controlled. Your creativity shows in your love of beauty, harmony and peace, which you need, and work to preserve, in your life. You could be a talented writer. You have a keen eye for details and the ability to analyze a situation and come to logical conclusions. Others seek you out for this very reason. You also have a fine sense of honor. There is a great mental activity with this vibration, and there may be traveling. You enjoy solitude when you can relax and meditate. These periods bring things into perspective for you and help you maintain your generally good health. You may eventually decide to put away material considerations for spiritual pursuits. You are courageous and, although you prefer to live a life of peace and solitude, you are ready to take action to preserve your peace. You have earned a rest from the strains of life and will express that peace in this lifetime. A negative 58 or 4 causes unrest and dissension; ill health and perpetual convalescence may be the result. Social unrest could lead to retreat and exile. 58/4 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Rest, relief, retreat, convalescence. This is a period of retreat in which your mind seeks rest from the cares of the world. Conflicts have ended, worries are over; now you desire peace and quiet to gather your strength. You can now analyze your situation and logically decide how to proceed. You are able to put even the smallest details of your life into perspective and clearly see what has real value. Your solitude may be a convalescent period after an illness, a self-imposed vacation for rest and relaxation or an enforced retreat arising from social unrest. Whatever the impetus that propelled you to this space, it requires concentration and meditation on the experiences that have brought you here. If used wisely, this period can lead to a change for the better. The conclusions you arrive at subconsciously will affect your future actions. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Four of Swords. The figure has assumed the proper position for rest, inferring that rest from anxiety and strain has been earned. The swords are put away; three hang on the wall, and one is placed lengthwise along the couch. This shows that, if need be, action would still be taken to preserve peace. This is a card of peace and quiet, not death. The window depicts outer activity. A man is shown kneeling before a woman, symbolizing that the conscious mind (male) is still a slave to the subconscious (female). To the resting figure all is serene; the sword of discrimination has been used and put away. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Third decan Libra. The mental side of Libra is strong in this decan; therefore, intellectual pursuits will attract you. You could do well in teaching, preaching, lecturing or writing. You have an amiable disposition and a refined manner, and you are extremely adaptable. You are logical and fair and believe in mercy and kindness. This is really the most balanced of the Libra decans. You have the integrity to be a judge. Your standards are high. Your greatest desire is for order, harmony, beauty and peace in your life. 59/5 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are passionately devoted to your convictions and will stand firm to defend your rights. You should strive to keep away from danger or injury. You are a gambler. You want to win by your wits, but you will experience defeat if you do not express yourself positively. Success as a banker or broker is possible as long as you neither take nor recommend speculative risks. Your mind is quick, and you need to guard against making impulsive decisions. Life will be full of experiences and travels. You may find yourself doing more than one thing at a time, but doing them all well. You are creative, versatile and charming. Your lively and sparkling personality can easily influence others, especially the opposite sex. You are critical of your own efforts and seek perfection. You are humane, refined and sympathetic. You may seek leadership positions where, as an executive, ruler or conqueror, you can use your idealism to implement social reform. Your sensitivity attracts you to the arts. Select congenial outlets for your talents and avoid the humdrum. This will help you disperse your surplus energy and maintain the peace and serenity so necessary to your health and well-being. A negative 59 or 5 deserts responsibilities. Your life becomes one of degradation and defeat. Your cruelty and unfairness in trying to outwit others brings empty victories which crumble and leave you with nothing. You, and all 59’s, should aim for higher consciousness. 59/5 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Travel, change, responsibility. Do not take speculative risks under this vibration. You may tend to be more impulsive now, so make an effort to think things through before acting. This impulsiveness can also cause accidents and injury; therefore, maintain a moderate speed in your lifestyle. There can be travel and a variety of opportunities now. Excitement, movement and romance make life more interesting. Be careful that you don’t follow your impulses blindly. This can bring loss and slanderous talk, and your reputation can be affected. Remain positive and accept your responsibilities; then you will come out on top. If you initiate changes after careful consideration, you will persevere. Situations encountered will be settled in your favor because you have the strength to stand up for what you believe. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Five of Swords. The figure in the foreground represents one who has finished the job. The figure walking away has laid down his sword, but he is still not defeated; he merely shows that he knows when to fight and when to retreat. The other figure really is defeated and is weeping over this fact. This card represents three attitudes of mind. It shows that we must discriminate in all matters and stand on our convictions. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: First decan Aquarius. To the Aquarian could be assigned the motto, “every person a brother or sister.” This is the sign of altruism. You are inspired by the concept of the Aquarian Age. You are intelligent and self-confident and determined to achieve your chosen goal. You are also willing to fight to preserve your ideals. 60/6 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You have the ability to examine reason as a human institution and then set it aside to make room for true wisdom, untainted by preconceived ideas. You may follow a literary career although you can apply your mind to various pursuits with equal success. You prefer to work independently rather than in partnership. You are sought after for your cheerfulness, fairness, intelligence and self-confidence. You make a good lawyer because clients feel secure with you. This vibration bestows a sense of power. You feel that you are under divine protection. People seek your advice and help because they also sense your healing qualities, both physical and mental. You are energetic and tirelessly strive toward a high goal of attainment. Nurses, advisors and managers are under this vibration. You are often deemed an idealist. You combine logic and imagination in a unique manner; this shows a fine balance between your conscious and subconscious minds. You are a leader with a sense of justice; if you find yourself becoming egotistical, balance that trend through generosity and consideration for others. You must earn your success through sustained effort and conscientious work. Do not expect results without application. You are creative and inventive. Some notable artists have been born in this vibration, but all of them labored faithfully for their successes. Negatively, a 60 or 6 is a rebel. You pursue your independent ways regardless of the needs of others. You may waste your fine mind and creative talents in selfish endeavors. 60/6 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Passage, new home, proposals, love. After a period of struggle during this cycle, you are on your way to a successful and happy conclusion. The job is done, and you have paid your fare. There will be companionship, love and a meeting of minds. You may receive a proposal or invitation to join with another in a mutual endeavor which promises fulfillment. Someone may represent you in a meeting or you may deal with someone’s representative. There is a coming together aspect involved here. Travel is a possibility as this vibration indicates physical movement as well as mental. A new home and environment may result. An element of justice is present. Legal dealings may arise to bring about the peaceful settlement of unresolved issues. You may encounter lawyers, judges or the courts in some way. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Six of Swords. The man, woman and child represent the trinity in consciousness. They are moving to another shore. The water of the subconscious supports them. The man has no difficulty steering the boat because the water is calm. The swords are arranged in a line to act as a shield. The points are down, indicating that the work has been done. There is harmony within the minds and they are all moving in the same direction under the guidance of the conscious mind (man). ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Second decan Aquarius. You are a discriminating individual. You seek goals beyond the material in the intellectual and spiritual realms. Your career could take you to many parts of the world. You have the desire to see and to investigate beyond the place of your birth. You have charm, intellect and a sense of power. Use your imagination constructively to make logical plans and get results that will benefit many. Often this takes place in artistic or literary fields. You have an uncanny ability to make your projects succeed. 61/7 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: The keyword for a 61 or 7 is achievement. This is a vibration of peace and sincerity. You have control over your emotions and command over others through your calm, deliberate manner. You are patient and sensible, and will achieve many of your goals through concentrated effort. You are intellectual, refined and discriminating. You know intuitively that the future depends on the past, and you use past experiences to promote growth. An interest in the occult and mystical may lead you to work in a religious or spiritual field and live a celibate life. You are responsive and sympathetic to the needs of others. You may be idealistic but at the same time you are willing to work for your goals. Your creed is tolerance and you believe that faith and spiritual development can cure all ills. Your well-rounded personality and high ethical standards could lead to a position as a foreign ambassador or diplomat. Your tolerance and idealism influence groups. You like to enjoy yourself and you will travel because you do not like to stay long in one place. You seek perfection and will always feel that you have not done as much or as well as you should. People may find you elusive; just when they think they have your number, you change unexpectedly. Some people find your actions contradictory; others see the seeds of greatness subtly hidden in your colorful personality. A negative 61 or 7 never quite succeeds. Your plans continually fall through, and others take what you feel is rightfully yours. 61/7 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Health, travel, completion. Listen to the good advice given you during this cycle. That advice may come from those in a position to know, or from your inner self. Since you need a period of quiet to hear and think about this information, you will be placed in a suitable environment to do so. Your health may require your attention. You may decide to take a sabbatical or vacation. Past efforts and attitudes are coming to fruition now; your success depends upon how well you have handled both. If your plans have failed or only been partially successful or if someone else has attained what you want, then examine your procedures. Faith, integrity and concern for others must dominate all your actions. Be tolerant of the errors of others now, and partial success may ultimately become a triumph. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Seven of Swords. The figure is hurrying away with an armful of swords. He turns around, wondering whether he should have taken the other two swords as well. This depicts uncertainty, hesitation and partial success. The tents also show instability for they are not permanent. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Third decan Aquarius. You form strong attachments or partnerships. People seek you for advice because of your perception and sense of justice. You would make a good lawyer or judge as you can easily see both sides of a question, and would evaluate fairly. You demonstrate a cool, impersonal freedom in your own conduct. You may be considered elusive, yet you inspire confidence, perhaps beyond what you yourself may feel. To develop self-confidence, practice discipline and emotional control. Difficulties and uncertainties will then be resolved. 62/8 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You have the power to achieve wisdom and control of the forces within you, but you must not become a slave to the intellect, which casts off what it cannot understand through reason. You have an analytical and discriminating mind with an eye for detail. Order and regulation are important in your life. You are also efficient and could succeed in detailed work, such as chemistry, pharmacology or any science involving experimentation. You will develop your intellect to satisfy your curiosity and desire for knowledge. You are clever, inventive and inquisitive, and are willing to research to find answers. You may want to travel, but if no opportunity appears, you will indulge in mental flights instead. You write and compile facts and statistics with equal pleasure. You are a thinker, quick and perceptive. You dominate groups through your ability to organize and get things done; but you keep all activities running in a practical and efficient manner. You willingly accept responsibility, but you never attempt the impossible. Although aware of your limitations, you are confident that you can overcome obstacles. Through thought and care you always seem to find a solution. You are trustworthy and responsible, a good neighbor and upright citizen. You want justice to prevail and may participate in community efforts to see that it does. You like quiet. Sometimes you like solitude so you can meditate. Study philosophy and learn to use your inner eye to see spiritual qualities. In this realm you cannot be bound by material considerations. You will find the true wisdom you are capable of attaining. If you are a negative 62 or 8, you are restricted by the appearances of your environment. You remain in bondage to trouble, sickness and burdens until you release yourself through true understanding. 62/8 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Impasse, restriction, responsibility. You may temporarily be involved in a situation which has reached an impasse or stalemate. You may feel restricted by your present surroundings and circumstances, or you may be censured or prevented in some way from expressing yourself. Difficulties with relatives may come to a head. Trouble and criticism cause deeper conflicts which may result in health problems. The selfish motives of those you thought were your friends may now be exposed. However, if you are not afraid to leave old habits and circumstances behind, you will be free from fear, free to relax and enjoy your newly acquired insight. Take courses, meditate, develop a sound philosophy which goes beyond materialism; discover the joys of the mind. Look within yourself for real values in life; see beyond the superficialities. If this has been your modus operandi all along, this period will bring the honor and recognition you have earned. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Eight of Swords. Although the figure is bound and blindfolded, she has found the opening through the barrier of swords (crosses). She travels the pathway of water, showing the power of the subconscious mind which is always symbolized by water in the Tarot. The castles in the background show substantial past accomplishments. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: First decan Gemini. The sign of the twins indicates duality. Those who are born in this area of the zodiac crave variety. You are happiest when you have several projects going at the same time. You are physically nimble, especially clever in any sort of handiwork. You easily learn to play musical instruments because of your flexible fingers. This tendency is also useful if you wish to do secretarial work. Writing, radio or TV announcing would be good outlets for your talents. When a subject captures your interest you are a very good student. 63/9 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are a born missionary and reformer. You worry over the sorrows of the world. You seek truth and wish to work for the good of others. There is, in this vibration, a fine balance of heart and head. This allows you to promote your ideals but prevents you from taking on the suffering of others. You may encounter struggles in which your emotions must be sublimated if you are to be successful. You are generous in sharing your good fortune with others. You are sensitive and sympathetic and are always ready to lend a helping hand when the occasion requires. This concern for others often leads to the development of the gift of healing. Through this you gain great happiness. You are independent. Your greatest inner struggle may be the desire for success at the sacrifice of some personal happiness. Self-control, discipline, patience and acceptance of your finite nature is the way to balance this powerful and complicated vibration. Artistic ability, clairvoyance and perception balance your unique personality. When you convert the threatening situations of life into tools with which to build a promising future, then you overcome all obstacles. You will have won the battle which tries to chain the spirit to the mortal world. Your inspired faith in tomorrow, against all odds, teaches and uplifts others. If you are a negative 63 or 9 you become swamped in sorrows. You see nothing but pain and grief in your environment and thereby waste your promising potential as an agent for hope in the world. 63/9 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Struggles, unselfishness, healing. If doubts assail you and you find yourself worrying unduly during this cycle, it is because you must learn, through emotional turmoil, to become less emotional. As you become more attached to material things, you become increasingly sorry that you may lose them. This is a cycle of endings, when physical and mortal things must change. The struggles and delays you endure last only as long as your persistent attachment to them. You must exercise self-control over your emotions. Become patient, quiet and receptive. You have healing powers now. Turn from your personal anxieties and share the experiences you have gained with those who need your wisdom. You can solve the problems of others and earn peace of mind and attain fulfillment. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Nine of Swords. The woman has an attitude of despair, regret, and contemplation. The coverlet which is marked with the signs of the zodiac and the seven planets symbolizes the experiences that life has brought her. These bring sorrow only if we allow them to impel us. If we understand that difficulties are lessons for growth and development, sorrow is lessened, and courage replaces frustration. The nine swords are pointing east, toward the light; this indicates new beginnings in the dawning new day. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Second decan Gemini. This is a more peaceful and less nervous Gemini decan, as the combined rulership of Mercury and Venus increases your sympathy and compassion for humanity. You enjoy the arts, music and poetry. A chance for harmonious partnership and love tends to produce beauty and joy in your life. 64/1 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: A 64/1 is extremely individualistic and often remains single. However, your magnetic personality, tolerance, liberal views and charitable ways draw joy and affection into your life. You are especially effective with groups. Happiness and fellowship are more important to you than fame or wealth. The contacts you make will help you attain your goals, which may include wealth if you should so decide. You want security in life and you are willing to work for it. You have fortitude, perseverance and determination; you always finish a task even though it is distasteful. You are intuitive and a good judge of human nature. Your keen intellectual perceptions will serve you well if you decide on a literary career, or decide to become a professor or public speaker. Professional work is better for you than efforts in the commercial field. Your conscious, subconscious and super-conscious minds work in unison, making almost anything possible for you through meditation and concentration on your life work. You are stable, honest and practical, a respected human being, who leads a proper life as a good neighbor and citizen. You know how to balance your responsibilities with recreation and rest. The lighter side of life lifts your spirits and provides a humorous respite. Your will to win comes from your strong positive attitude and determination to let nothing get you down. Scientific and spiritual matters interest you. Once you have awakened the life force, or kundalini, within you and accepted the true nature of reality, which is change, you will have the power to overcome all negative forces. A negative 64 or 1 suffers many losses and failures. You cling desperately to the material world of fear. Because you hang on, each loss brings greater suffering. You have not learned to develop a spiritual belief in what cannot be seen but nevertheless exists: faith, and the immortality of the soul. 64/1 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Responsibility, tests, awareness. This is a perfect time to develop your inner awareness through some form of metaphysical discipline such as meditation, yoga, TM, mind control or the like. Through spiritual pursuits you will learn that change is a constant cycle in the universe; all things must die and be reborn in new forms. Detach yourself from the experiences in your life and you will acquire the wisdom and fortitude to persevere toward your goals. You can be your own worst enemy if you let sudden burdens and disappointments defeat you. There can be trials under this vibration. By handling them you open a door in your life and discover the path of your destiny. One special person may be on that path to accompany you. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Ten of Swords. The ten swords pierce the spine at the centers. (The force centers are points of connection at which energy flows in the etheric double of the body of a human being.) The red robe of desire drapes over the lower centers but is held fast by the awakened discriminative sense. The background colors, yellow and blue in equal proportions, show the balance of the two parts of mind: conscious and subconscious. The hilts of the swords in the form of crosses are throwing the white light of super-consciousness, penetrating the black abyss of unknown mysteries. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Third decan Gemini. A good intellect, mental stability and balance are the gifts of this decan. You have the power of concentration, and you very likely will pursue a career in science. You could pioneer in electronics or in energy production. You ability to judge human nature without prejudice or bias is a valuable asset in your business and social life. FIVE: THE PENTACLES. 65/11 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: This is one of the best master number 11’s for obtaining material success. You will succeed through your perseverance, intelligence and maturity. By harnessing your energies and directing them constructively, you create abundance in your life. Good things seem to come to you almost without effort. You are systematic and orderly, with a talent for organization. Others look to you for security. You are a natural leader who achieves power and authority in the business world, with control over large industries and businesses. Important people are in your sphere of influence; they can help you to advance your status and reach your goals. You are practical and reserved and invest your riches wisely for the benefit of those around you. You are a patron of literature and the arts. You believe in education, good manners and a conventional approach to life. Your life will include a happy marriage, surrounded by comfort, productivity and powerful friends. A negative 65 or 11 uses money extravagantly in speculation, gambling and frivolity. You may even use your resources for evil ends. Your power is used for self-gratification through material pleasures and possessions. 65/11 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Promotion, risks, assistance. This is a master number period which requires more and, in return, gives more than any other number vibration. You can expect to elevate your present status. Money, position and influence are yours. The rewards are in exact proportion to your previous output and, if this has been substantial, you will revel in the riches life gives you. Influential people, especially of the opposite sex, will help you advance your position. You will have the power you desire in your chosen field. Maintain a practical approach to all affairs. Share your good fortune with others; you can afford to be generous now. However, extravagance and unwise speculation can lead to losses, so keep a balance. Marriage under this vibration is fruitful and successful. TAROT SYMBOLISM: King of Pentacles. The King is dressed in a robe decorated with grapes; they symbolize fruitfulness and plenty. The Taurean symbols decorating the throne indicate money, possessions and material gifts. The buildings shown are not merely houses, but are castles of substantial size. Luxury is also evident in the heavy carving adorning the throne, and the golden crown topped with a wreath of roses, the symbol of elevated desires. Since the roses are on top of the crown, at the highest point of the figure, they indicate that the desires have been fulfilled. The mace in the king’s right hand is a symbol of authority and power. The golden pentacle in the left hand shows an ability to handle money wisely. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: First decan Capricorn. This decan is Saturn-ruled and is the midheaven of the natural zodiac. It relates to honor, fame and ambition. If Capricorn, or any cardinal sign, is on the midheaven in your individual horoscope, some sort of prominence is indicated, depending on details in other parts of the chart. You have a talent for leadership and organization. You are persevering and thorough, thrifty and industrious, systematic and orderly. Education and the arts are important to you. You have good taste and conventional manners. You are the aristocrat of the zodiac, the most noble of the numbers, expressed in high and serious goals. 66/3 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are intelligent, thoughtful and responsible. Your public-spirited and idealistic nature inspires you to do something to solve the social problems you see. There is a practical side to your nature, too. You use your talents wisely and productively to achieve tangible results. Your magnetism attracts whatever you desire; as a result, you achieve great wealth and security. You are charitable and generous; you use your wealth and talents to help those who are less fortunate. You are a truly noble person. You appreciate the finer things in life and you love to surround yourself with beauty. Your home must be comfortable and well decorated, as you enjoy splendor if it is expressed in good taste. Flattery and deception have absolutely no place in your personality; truth and fairness rule your conduct. You are faithful and trustworthy, as you value your integrity. You are practical and determined in carrying out your plans. Others appreciate your sound business advice. Once you give your affection, you are a devoted partner and mate, supportive in every way. As a negative 66 or 3, you may refuse to accept responsibility because you fear failure. You end up very dependent on others, and even worse, you allow your vast talents to lie fallow and eventually die. 66/3 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Friends, money, travel. This period deals with the material aspects of life and the pleasures and comforts derived from it. Money and possessions are accentuated. You will gain more affluence and prestige in some manner. An influential friend may assist you, or you could receive an inheritance or promotion. The courts and the legal profession could be involved. Educational pursuits will bring wealth and influence. If you have dreamed of a special vacation or trip, you will now have the funds to fulfill that desire. Enough money is available for you to feel opulent and secure. Your mind is very active now. Channel this energy to create a successful business or otherwise bring about tangible results. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Queen of Pentacles. The Queen is dressed in an elegant but conservative costume, which befits her character. Her throne is decorated with symbols of fruitfulness. The goat, symbol of Capricorn, is carved into the arms of the throne. Flowers are in bloom all around her. The hare is also a symbol of fertility and productiveness. Cherubs always indicate the protection of divine beings, who radiate love, peace, happiness and contentment. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Second decan Capricorn. The second decan of Capricorn, (Taurus dominant, Earth and Venus co-ruling), produces not only a practical individual with an eye on financial gains and prestigious positions, but also a determined, loyal and sometimes stubborn individual. It would be hard to imagine anyone with these qualities who would not become successful in whatever endeavor he or she chose. Certainly, with this number, this is the case. 67/4 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are a trustworthy, practical person and a good worker. Material progress and hard work are most important to you. You have matured to the point where you can pursue your goals without depending on others; you accept responsibility for your life and future. Persistence and hard work are your formulae for success and peace of mind. You view the future calmly and methodically plan for it. You handle money well. It is, you feel, a tool for cultivating more resources. You have no anxiety over money because you have faith that it will increase ten-fold if invested wisely. You have a common sense approach to life. You are artistic, creative and inventive. These talents are used to perform a service to others. You produce the products that supply our personal needs and comforts. You nurture and protect the goods of your community so that others may eventually benefit from them. You satisfy your appreciation of beauty and derive emotional satisfaction from this. You win a victory over your world and earn your rest. A negative 67 or 4 is lazy and unproductive. You shirk responsibility and want others to take care of you. You never seem to have enough money or other goods to supply your needs. 67/4 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Work, patience, firmness. Patience is a virtue now. You must be methodical; plan each step you take. Do not depend upon others for help; rather, use your own talents and resources to get ahead. Money is an issue, and budgeting may be necessary. Handle your finances wisely. If you take care of money, it will take care of you. By performing services that supply vital commodities for others, you can be assured of financial success now. Do not allow your routine to become monotonous, but do maintain a steady drive to achieve your goals. Unemployment or difficulty with your job means you should look to your work habits and your attitude toward your position. If you are in the wrong profession, make a change. If you like your work, examine different avenues of approach until you find one that will benefit you and ultimately others. TAROT SYMBOLISM: The Knight of Pentacles. The Knight is pictured riding a work horse. He is contemplating work well done, while at the same time planning a course of action before he starts again. He considers the situation calmly to decide on the wisest moves. His weapon is money; he knows that a wise investment means power on the material plane. His helmet and the bridle of his horse are decorated with the leaves of the grapevine, symbolizing fruitfulness. The field ahead is an open plain, showing cultivation to be done as seasons come and go. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Winter (Capricorn, Aquarius, Pisces). This Knight presides over the winter season, when the fruits of labor have been stored for the winter’s use and security. In this area of the zodiac much of the creative, inventive and artistic work is carried on, so it is with prudence that the Knight has stored the products of the harvest, allowing opportunity for other types of labor to continue. 68/5 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You have a strong attraction for money and luxuries and may become infatuated by them. You enjoy beautiful surroundings and will learn how to earn them, probably through mental rather than physical labor. Through clever planning you achieve your goals. Because clever planning requires an acute mind, you respect learning. You are willing to listen to new ideas and take advice from others. Although somewhat of an introvert, you are a communicator whose purpose is to bring your ideas into the material world. You appear poised and confident, an image you wish to project; within, you are concerned and careful about the decisions you make. You are diligent and cautious as you build for a permanent and comfortable future. Strict attention to planning and organization account for a large share of your success. As a negative 68 or 5 you can be a schemer. You become obsessed with a desire for material possessions. This creates a sense of urgency which obliterates all caution; waste and loss result. 68/5 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Education, planning, travel, new paths. Be careful; during this period an exaggerated materialism may prompt you to spend and react unwisely. Set about to achieve your desires through proper planning and attention to details. Your organizational ability and receptivity to new ideas can be turned to profit. Someone you meet may be a catalyst in your decision to follow one course or another. Be flexible. Accept invitations to socialize and travel; they bring opportunities which aid you in building a sound future. Educational opportunities may arise; accept them for they can open new doors. Communication during this cycle serves to establish priorities and strengthen financial or business dealings. There can be ups and downs and possibly some waste or loss. These phases are intended to eliminate the unnecessary. Use discrimination, plan carefully, and the future is yours. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Page of Pentacles. The Page holds the pentacle lightly, with nonchalance. On the outer surface he appears calm while within there is great care and concern that the right choices are made. The mountain of attainment is in the background. The flowers in the foreground show that the attention now is on the immediate future. The Page is nevertheless aware of the goal to be reached in the distant future. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Third decan Capricorn. This is the Virgo decan which brings in the eye for detail and the fine discriminatory sense that results in good planning and organization. You have poise, confidence and good taste, but you do not believe in gaudy or showy displays. 69/6 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You have all the talents necessary to create a life of material success and emotional contentment. This is the beginning in which some of the vast resources of the natural environment are placed in your hands. You could mold these resources and produce fortune, honor and fame. Your work is not done until you learn and apply the principle of values on the material plane. The wheel of success turns, propelled by your energy and drive. You are attracted to luxury and beauty, and you have the proper attitude to attain them. To express yourself completely, you must be comfortable materially and contented mentally. You enjoy the divine protection which this vibration seems to offer. Once you have attained success on the material plane, in the business or financial world, you share your bounty generously. Contributions are made to the arts and other pursuits that bring pleasure and culture to people. Your generosity is repaid and your riches increase, reaffirming the value you place in the earth s resources. As a negative 69 or 6 you become infatuated with the pursuit of worldly possessions and, once attained, hoard them avariciously. Your greed corrupts you and assures you material comforts but little contentment. 69/6 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Honor, fame, money, contentment. You are showered with honor, fame, money and happiness. The fruits of your labor are in your hands for your consumption. Your past diligent efforts are rewarded. At home, in your profession and in your community you are respected and admired. As your finances increase, you can afford to be generous; you should contribute in some measure to the environment about you. This is such a good vibration that the negative aspect still brings material comforts and financial gains; however, the inner contentment felt with the positive side of 69 or 6 is lacking. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Ace of Pentacles. The Hand of God is holding the pentacle as an offering to those who will learn to grasp its meaning. It seems to suggest that all may partake of material goods and reach the mountain of attainment after recognition that the universal consciousness is offered to all who seek it. The lilies in the foreground represent purified desires. The roses represent the energetic drive behind the desires of the flesh. The twin mountains of attainment, seen through the arch of roses, indicate that the goal is in sight, although still in the distant future. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: The element earth (Taurus, Virgo, Capricorn). Since the aces rule the elements, the Ace of earth bestows the material wealth and security which is so greatly needed and desired during the life sojourn. Fortune, honor and fame are the goals of earthly consciousness. Material and mental contentment and divine protection seem to completely express what we most strive to attain. 70/7 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: This is considered a fortunate vibration because it offers business opportunities. You are thoughtful, prudent, ambitious and diplomatic. You are well liked in your business and social life. You believe in being fair in all your dealings and are probably the only 7 that should attempt a partnership. The 0 gives divine protection. Your creativity has commercial value. You devise ingenious methods to solve problems and promote products. You also know how to get the most out of your money. Changing situations will continually confront you; at all times, be ready to handle these circumstances and bring about harmonious solutions. You are aware of opposing forces and have intuitive understanding of other people’s emotions. While skillfully controlling your own feelings you bring about peaceful and satisfactory settlements. You are thrifty and practical. Your poise, self-confidence, and managerial ability should earn you an executive position. You may do a great deal of traveling for business, or, at the very least, be actively involved in communication. Messages and exchanges are the crux of your work. Your perseverance and endurance prevail, and you become successful. Be sure to balance your personality by allowing equal time for work and play. As a negative 70 or 7, you live a life of pretense. You cannot handle more than one situation at a time, especially if they are conflicting. You are moody; your life reflects your instability by its many ups and downs. 70/7 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Partnership, travel, business. This is a period of business activity. You may be offered a partnership that will be financially profitable in the long run. If both parties deal with fairness and integrity, the union will have cosmic protection. Creative ideas emerge to offer unique ways to solve difficulties or promote products. This will enhance your business. Remain alert to changing conditions around you. Fluctuating trends need to be considered. Messages and communications regarding business abound. Travel for business purposes may be necessary. You can settle disputes or difficulties amicably because you have insight into the opposing forces at work. Keep your imagination under control, and don’t envision problems where there are none. If you allow imaginary troubles to block the positive flow here, you will lose out financially and professionally. Your health may then suffer. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Two of Pentacles. The person pictured is a clever juggler. His material is money. The horizontal 8, the cosmic lemniscate, means infinity. Here it signifies a desire for balanced and continuous activity rather than struggle and strain in attaining ambitions. This is an ongoing process. The ships in the background on the crests of the waves seem to be skillfully piloted, denoting prosperous ventures or success in commerce. The figure’s outer garment is made of leather which shows a desire for lasting qualities, dominance and good use of the animal and lower kingdoms. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: First decan Capricorn. This decan bestows ambition and diplomacy, with plenty of perseverance and endurance. You handle management positions with ease and will eventually work your way into executive positions. Because you are confident, thrifty and practical you do well in leadership roles. 71/8 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: This is a number of constructive material accomplishments. You are dynamic, determined and forceful. With your persistence you finish whatever you decide to do. You work within the accepted norm, learn your trade, and become skilled in your craft. You do not allow dogma or frivolity to distract you. Although disciplined, sensible and aggressive, you sometimes attempt the impossible; however, you realize your limitations and overcome them through sheer hard work. You are dependable, a rock of Gibraltar, inspiring others with your stability. You must remember to take time off for vacations, rest and recreation, to prevent tension from building up, which would be the case if you insist on constantly applying your energy to work alone. Think what the word recreation means... to re-create. You need leisure time to recharge and tap your creative sources. Exercising outdoors and communing with nature have healing effects on you. You are affectionate and sympathetic and instinctively understand the situations which are presented for your solution. Your skills, your desire to acquire wealth and your willingness to progress slowly and steadily to that end assure you financial success. As a negative 71 or 8, you are indifferent to the development of your skills, and therefore you accomplish little. You pay the price however, because it will all catch up with you. 71/8 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Opportunity, advancement, gain. Apply yourself diligently and develop your skills, and you will obtain employment which will ensure your financial security. This can only be obtained through hard work, so use this period for professional development. Be dependable, steady and reliable. Those in authority will be impressed by your cleverness, skill and persistence. Business contracts and job promotions can result. Think big, expand your horizons, allow your creative potential a chance to show what it can do. You are on your way to the top. As you climb, be sure to take time to help those along the way who may not be operating under the powerful influence you are. The honor and recognition bestowed upon you now will increase your bank account as well. If you are a negative 71 or 8, you allow the opportunity for professional development to pass. As a result of your laziness, opportunities will be lost forever. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Three of Pentacles. A laborer is shown working on a cathedral, symbolizing that one should work to improve the temple or the person as a whole. The laborer earns success and rewards for good and faithful work. He pays little attention to the two figures seeking to distract him either through dogma or frivolity. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Second decan Capricorn. This area of the zodiac gives a desire to acquire worldly goods. You are willing to progress slowly and steadily towards that goal. You go about your work quietly, but steadily, to attain the heights you have set for yourself. Real estate, agriculture, or mining would be suitable professions for you. 72/9 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You seek satisfaction through directing mundane affairs and accumulating earthly power. You are keenly analytical and see things in terms of material advantage. This is one of the most practical vibrations for handling material matters skillfully and constructively. You want to amass a fortune, and you have the practical ability, ambition and conviction to do so. The urge here is to build on a large scale and make every penny count. You cannot stand loss through carelessness or wastefulness. You are generous and merciful but have the tenacity to hold onto money and to accumulate the material goods you desire. You are cautious lest the goal you have set for yourself be interfered with; at the same time, your diligent efforts provide services for others. You have a strong character. Your standards are high, and you possess an innate stability; a gift of balanced and logical thinking, through which you achieve harmony and happiness. Through generosity you overcome your fear of poverty. You want your life to be one of usefulness and constructive accomplishments. Then others look to you as a model of practical earthly success. As a negative 72 or 9, you can be selfish, clinging to your possessions out of fear that someone may take them from you. Your miserliness shuts you into a lonely and desolate existence where your wealth offers little pleasure because you spend every moment guarding it. 72/9 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Increase, wealth, satisfaction. Your attention is turned toward material matters. By keenly analyzing your financial condition, you can amass a fortune. You need to build major enterprises with an eye toward every detail and a hand on the purse strings. Be persevering; let nothing deter you from your goal, a goal that is practical and useful to others. If you suffer setbacks or losses, examine your motives. Material achievement to satisfy your own need for security and allay your fear of poverty can bring failure. If you strive for success through the sustained effort and skillful execution of your talents and organizational abilities, you will achieve the material success which you seek. You can then rest upon your earned laurels. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Four of Pentacles. The figure is shown very much closed up within himself. Every extremity is bound by material value; his attitude is that of one who is grasping and holding on. Skillful handling of money is shown by the perfectly balanced pentacle on top of the unadorned crown on his head. He has little regard for personal adornment, as shown by the carelessly laced shoes and the ragged cloak or shawl thrown about his shoulders and waist. The buildings behind him show much past material accomplishment, yet he is still clinging to his material values, wanting to accumulate and build more. The lesson here is that earthly riches do nothing for the inner soul, for the figure looks poor in spite of his many possessions. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Third decan Capricorn. This area of the zodiac produces a practical, ambitious person who is adaptable and discriminating. You want your life to be one of usefulness and constructive accomplishments. You see things in terms of how they will fit into your financial scheme of advancement. By learning to share the abundance you receive from life, you will overcome any fear of poverty. 73/1 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: The keyword here is wisdom—the wisdom to acquire harmony within, to grasp the inner light, to know that to work for material reward alone brings impoverishment, while work for the deed itself brings spiritual fulfillment. You are well aware that you would have to endure the misery and burdens of the world if you took an avaricious approach to life and denied the spiritual light within. You have a fine flow of energy, enduring stamina and the ability to self-start and recharge yourself. Because fear is not part of your language, your self-confidence is superb and serves as an inspiration to others. You are strong-willed, affectionate and patient. Your good business sense and financial ability will bring you blessings. A powerful combination of factors operate to give you a personality that can sometimes produce miracles. You should always use your abilities with honesty, idealism and integrity. You can become a power for good in the world and make it a better place in which to live. If you are a negative 73 or 1, you are obstinate, self-willed, and slow to develop. Your wisdom is attained only through physical, material and financial hardships in which you must choose between material pursuits and spiritual riches. When you look to the light within, a change in consciousness takes place, and the material aspects of life flow easily. 73/1 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Work, meditation, values. Be aware that a preoccupation with the purely material side of life can bring only disappointment. Work and personal endeavors are emphasized here, however, you should pursue them with a delight in the accomplishment itself and not out of a need for the material rewards. Indulging yourself out of a subconscious need for self-importance can bring temporary gains that will ultimately end in misfortune. The losses that can occur during this cycle serve only to place your purposes and aims in proper perspective. The transient nature of the material world should encourage you to look for deeper values. You should obtain some books on philosophy, spend time in meditation or sign up for a course in some metaphysical discipline which will expose you to other ways to deal with the circumstances in your life. The positive result of this cycle is wisdom. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Five of Pentacles. The two figures in the picture represent physical and mental poverty. They serve as a warning to seek the light within, which is indicated by the lighted window. The card is meant to show that inner riches far outshine any material fortunes. The message here is: turn to your inner powers for guidance and avoid the poverty of consciousness to be found if attention is on the outer world alone. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: First decan Taurus. This area of the zodiac is noted for its strong will and great endurance. You have good business and financial abilities. You are fond of ease, good food and the luxuries of life. Artistic talent may be present in the form of singing or other creative abilities. 74/11 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: This is a master number vibration. It requires more than most number vibrations, but, as a result, it returns more. The most important element in this vibration is the balancing of debts, both present and karmic. You feel a need and desire to set things right in your life, in your community and in the world, as far as your influence and responsibility can take you. You are idealistic, with a firm faith that you can make your dreams come true. You balance charity with justice, willingly sharing your material prosperity with others out of concern and a desire to balance the scales. In adjusting your values, you expiate karmic debts through positive action. It is your job to control and maintain the economic factors that keep our society alive and functioning. Your scientific and social inclinations could lead you into chemistry, medicine or professions connected with food and hygiene. Whatever you choose, you need to maintain a fine emotional balance so that your moods will not fluctuate from ecstasy to gloom. You are popular with the opposite sex because of your grace, charm, self-confidence and independence. You have a keen sense of your own worth. You can direct group activities and inspire confidence because you always give a fair deal. When you keep your many talents balanced, material success is assured. Then you must become the philanthropist, sharing your prosperity and influence with the needy of the world. Only in this manner will your worldly attainment possess any real value. If you are a negative 74 or 11, you can be unscrupulous in the pursuit of financial success and security. You need money in proportion to your insecurities, and you can become a miser, drawing jealousy and resentment upon yourself by your actions. 74/11 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Gifts, inheritances, balance, sharing. This is a master number vibration. You are given more opportunity for achievement, and you will reap greater rewards if you fulfill the extra demand. This is a karmic period that requires balancing and sharing. This implies that there has been an imbalance prior to this that must be atoned for and settled. The resulting rewards, be they material or spiritual, must be shared with others. You will attract others who will be inspired by your charm and self-confidence. You can perform effectively in group activities. You have the ambition to pursue your goals; great rewards come from the expression of your talents. Material prosperity is now bestowed on you. You may receive gifts from an admirer, honor from your peers, or perhaps an inheritance. Remember, the lesson now is sharing. A negative use of 74 or 11 brings undesirable friendships and jealousy. You accrue debts and suffer losses. Your unscrupulous methods bring only sorrow. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Six of Pentacles. The central figure holding the scales is the benefactor, as indicated by the master number and the area of the zodiac’s relationship. The key pictures the condition when values are learned and the material substances of life are shared. The other figures depict the opposite condition, when the positive side is neglected and the negative condition (objects of charity) results from carelessness. You can choose to create the positive or the negative in your own future. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Second decan Taurus. This decan includes the scientific influence of the Virgo vibration. You have a discriminating and critical mind. You could be a career analyst or follow a line in the social services, or choose chemistry as related to health matters, such as hygiene, food or diets. You could also be a sympathetic nurse or doctor. You could develop methods of preserving and handling foods for market. You are popular with the opposite sex because of your grace, ability and idealism. 75/3 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: This vibration brings growth if you remain firm and independent. Much depends upon your persistence and effort. You have potential, but attainment calls for hard and steady work, which inwardly you know is necessary. You know that it takes time for your efforts to bear fruit, that you must be calm and patient while waiting, and you must unceasingly apply yourself to the task at hand. Under this number you will really reap what you have sown. Everything from prizefighters to editors, from dramatic actors to musicians, is covered under this number. All, however, had to maintain persistent effort to achieve their fame and position. You have what it takes to become successful: fortitude and discipline. Your practical nature is coupled with ambition. You get along well with your contemporaries. You could become interested in metaphysics or philosophy but you would keep everything on a practical basis. You want to see concrete proof before you accept controversial concepts. You are serious about life, sober and sensible. With both feet firmly on the ground, you accomplish your goals. Opportunities for more responsible positions come to you, and you accept the challenges with courage. You reach a higher status in life than was present at your birth through your determination and stamina. With all the material success you attain, you still realize the need for the investigation and development of your spiritual side. A negative 75 or 3 worries over money or lack of it. You are impatient when rewards are not immediately forthcoming; your anxieties can affect your health and cause you to give up easily. 75/3 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Money, travel, patience, hard work. During this cycle you must exercise patience and perseverance. You have to learn that rewards come only after hard work. A steady application of energy toward a positive goal is necessary. Once these lessons have been learned, the success you strive for is yours. Karma has control here because your success is in direct proportion to the effort you extend. You should unite practicality with ambition. See the situation as it really is and decide if it has any real value. If it does, proceed with determination to see the job accomplished. Always opt for concrete results. Your contemporaries are willing to assist you, so reach out to those on whom you can depend. Positions of authority can open for you; meet them with confidence and a sense of responsibility. Always keep in mind the ethics and morality of your actions. New opportunities may require travel, so be flexible. A negative reaction brings frustration over financial matters. There are delays, and you may feel impatient and restricted. The only solution is a calm acceptance of time as the eternal healer and a resolution to get down to business and work with a positive attitude. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Seven of Pentacles. The young man pictured has attained a considerable show of success through his diligence. He now contemplates his work and notices the lack of fruit on the beautiful full-leaved vine. He realizes it has borne only leaves. He has arrived with his cutting blade to reap the harvest; now he contemplates what could have been lacking in his efforts. He is made to realize that material things are not enough to feed the soul. The nourishment of life comes only through spiritual cultivation. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Third decan Taurus. This area of the zodiac has produced many different types of individuals, all of whom have applied determination and persistence to achieve their goals. You have an independent and disciplined attitude; the Taurean plodding is here sparked with ambition. You accept challenges and responsible positions and go on to even higher achievement. 76/4 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are endowed with the ability to be a genius in your given field. You are accomplished in a craft or trade, and are a self-made person who works not for others but for yourself. You do not look for support but painstakingly apply yourself to the task at hand. You take life seriously and are both honest and modest about your accomplishments. Gain comes through dear thinking rather than emotional desire. You use logic in making decisions because you are accurate and analytical, a good planner and organizer, always adhering to orderly and steady growth as the proven way of advancement. You are not a world-beater as far as worldly attainment is measured, but you show progress by the example of your lifestyle and thus quietly teach others a sure way to successful achievement. What you do accomplish will be of great benefit in the long run, both to yourself and others. You should guard against all work and no play. Overwork can give way to anxiety and worry. Relax at proper intervals and take regular vacations to preserve your health. Allow time for spiritual awakening; this is also important for total happiness and gracious living. You exemplify wisdom evolving from quiet work. If you are a negative 76 or 4 you either never develop your skills and remain unproductive, or else you develop them for evil gains through fraud or forgery. This can only mean failure. 76/4 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Training, employment, skills. You now have the ability to develop your skills through some kind of training, apprenticeship or job opportunity. You should apply yourself to the task with concentration and dedication, resolving to improve your talents carefully and painstakingly. Do not allow emotions to gain the upper hand. Proceed with a clear head, use logic and organization to achieve your goals. Work quietly and unassumingly, for bravado is not the method of approach here. Your accomplishments during this cycle will prove valuable in long-range goal planning. Be sure to set aside periods for rest and relaxation. The tendency here is to push too hard, work too long and become overtired. This can bring on health problems. Balance your work with play; you are in a training period which is preparing you for future employment. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Eight of Pentacles. A workman dressed in plain garments, covered with a leather apron, is diligently carving a golden pentacle, symbol of money. The large stack of work piled high shows that he has kept at the job faithfully. His back is turned to everything else in the world; his attention is on his work alone. This picture shows honesty, attention to fine details and expert skills. It may also suggest that all work and no play makes a dull life, although pleasure and satisfaction may come from the acquisition of wealth. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: First decan Virgo. The modesty of Virgo shows through your quiet desire to be an example for others. You accomplish your goals by proceeding carefully and showing concern that the job is done properly and orderly. You must watch a tendency to overwork and become so embroiled in your profession that you do not allow time for leisurely pleasures. 77/5 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: Fruitfulness, productivity and physical perfection are the keywords for this vibration. You have all the comforts of life. Your good fortune may have come from thrift and industry, or through unexpected and mysterious means, such as legacies or gifts of appreciation. At any rate, you are very comfortable and protected which allows you periods for reflection and pleasurable pursuit. You have the insight to understand others, and you draw people to you. You are popular and self-confident. Emotionally you adjust to circumstances. You can be free and humorous or extremely cautious and serious as the occasion demands. Although you are shrewd and prudent, there is an imaginative and creative side to you in this highly sensitive vibration. Practicality and thoroughness are your foremost traits. Your ambition may arouse a desire to rise in station through responsibilities in social service or public life. Your urge for higher achievement prods you onward; your tact will aid you in this climb. You handle all affairs with skill. There is something of the aristocrat here, for you have all the material needs and physical enjoyments one could desire, but you nevertheless feel a duty to offer your services to bring about higher accomplishments for the world. If you express the negative 77 or 5, you may lose through extravagance the possessions you love so dearly. You thereby forfeit the privilege of indulging your personal pleasures. Your family and friends may be among your losses. 77/5 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Good fortune, popularity, achievement. From an unexpected source, you may receive gifts, money or an inheritance. This good fortune can evolve in mysterious ways, or it may be the result of your prudence and industriousness. However it comes, you will now have the resources for travel, entertainment and other pleasurable ventures. You will attract many friends, improve your social life and find yourself the center of attention. You are bright and charming; however, if circumstances demand, you can immediately become serious. Your creative side is awakened now. Enjoy this affluent period, but also be practical in all you do. Extravagance can cause dissipation and loss of money. Look at the goals you can achieve now that you have been released from financial cares. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Nine of Pentacles. A woman is shown elegantly dressed, with symbols of love, wealth and abundance in unmistakable evidence. The key depicts luxury and ease. The falcon on her hand is a symbol of aristocracy, as only those who have wealth and leisure can indulge in the art of falconry. The vines in the background are lush with fruit, thus completing this picture of ample wealth and security. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Third decan Virgo. This area of the zodiac bestows a great awakening of ambition, a desire to be more persevering and an urge for high achievement. This reflects a period in the life when further opportunity for advancement will be offered. Tact and diplomacy are attributes of your personality that make you skillful in handling your affairs. For those who are aggressive there will be opportunity to serve and to gain honor and recognition. This period often brings wealth and all around better conditions. 78/6 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: Here is ultimate attainment of desires on both the material and spiritual planes. 12 is considered the number of the perfect cycle as in the 12 months of the year and the twelve signs of the zodiac. The extension of 12, arrived at by adding together the numbers 1 through 12, is 78. In this number there is a high potency indeed. You know that you have reached attainment by extraordinary effort. You used great strength and persistence to reach a high material goal. Diligence and a well-ordered life round out the effort. Emotions are kept in a proper place in the midst of your luxury. Your high idealism and finely balanced nature create a desire to serve. Surrounded by family, tradition, wealth and comfort, you are now released from the vicissitudes of labor and are able to pursue philanthropic endeavors which will aid humanity. You are an extrovert: confident, secure in your possessions, ready to utilize your mental sagacity to establish fine living conditions and a semblance of justice in the world around you. Your love of art and beauty prompts you to support cultural endeavors financially. You will not work for the sake of work but only to establish and add an element of beauty to the better side of life. You have the financial influence to bring about such results. Harmony in the material world is a measure of what the balance between spirit and matter can produce: a fulfilling and comfortable life. If you express the negative 78 or 6, you can lose more than others because you have the potential to gain so much more. Since misfortunes and burdens can plague you, use caution in all your endeavors. 78/6 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Great fortune, happy family, the arts. You can acquire a great fortune during this cycle, both materially and spiritually. The seeds of ultimate fulfillment lie here, a fulfillment achieved through personal effort and tremendous perseverance. Leisure time, pleasure and the satisfaction of sensual desires create a feeling of wellbeing and self-confidence. You should maintain a level head in the midst of this opulence and set your sights on cultural achievements which can bring an uplift to the soul. Pursue creative work now, and support the world of beauty and art. A happy family life can be established here. Family lineage and prestige gain significance, and children abound. The idealistic structures you build under this vibration will have lasting and profound effects upon those who come in contact with them. They are monuments to the perfect balance between the material and spiritual. Do not allow yourself to degenerate into a state of idleness and dissipation because of the luxury bestowed on you now. The material life is only temporary; eventually one has to confront the soul. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Ten of Pentacles. This scene depicts both plain and intricate structural designs. There are also shown three phases of humanity which stand for three states of consciousness. The man, woman and child are symbolic of conscious mind, subconscious mind, and superconscious mind. Off to the side is the Ancient, observing and knowing the future of those he sees through the arch. The two gray dogs denote the development of the animal kingdom. (Gray is the result of mixing black and white; this shows balance.) Notice the balance scales built solidly on the arch, above the Ancient’s head. This implies that balance is won and the scales can no longer be tipped. The pentacles are arranged in the pattern of the Tree of Life design, showing that the greatest attainment comes from achieving balance while on the earth plane. This is a picture of success and fulfillment in every way. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Third decan Virgo. Financial prospects are good in this area of the zodiac if combined with the ability to use this influence properly. You have a sense of purpose without being too obstinate and serious. This comes from a combination of Saturn, Venus and Mercury. These qualities bring pleasure, art and practicality together; this results in service and sympathy in whatever affairs you meet during your lifetime. End of Main Book. APPENDIX. SYNTHESIS OF NUMEROLOGY, ASTROLOGY AND THE TAROT. NUMEROLOGY, ASTROLOGY AND THE TAROT are different ways of exploring the cycles of life experience. In this Appendix, the material presented in Part 2 of this book is summarized in table and chart form so that you can more easily see how each of these three ancient systems relates to the others. As you know, the 78 keys of the Tarot are divided into 2 groups: the Major Arcana and the Minor Arcana. The Major Arcana correspond to the numbers 0 to 22. These numbers are: the God-powered 0, the base digits 1 to 9 and the first cycle of double-digit numbers up to the second master number, 22. These numbers and their corresponding Tarot keys represent archetypal life patterns and are linked astrologically with the signs of the zodiac and the planets. This information is contained in Table 1. In Tables 2 to 5, we present the information contained in Chapters 2 to 5 of Part 2, which deal with the numbers 23 to 78, the Minor Arcana and the yearly astrological cycle. To clarify the relationship of these numbers to the Minor Arcana and the astrological cycle we have included Figure 7, which presents the information of Tables 2 to 5 in wheel form. In astrology we speak of Aries (fire), Cancer (water), Libra (air) and Capricorn (earth) as the cardinal signs. The cardinal signs govern the seasons and mark the equinoxes and solstices. For example, the astrological year begins with the Vernal Equinox; this occurs when the Sun enters the sign Aries, and marks the beginning of spring. In Figure 7 you will see that the king, queen and page of each suit correspond to the cardinal sign which governs the same element. The King of Wands (cardinal, fire) corresponds to Aries (cardinal, fire). You will also note in the tables and in Figure 7 that in the cardinal signs the kings, queens and pages of each suit are assigned the same astrological correspondence as the twos, threes and fours of the same suit. For example, in Table 3 and in Figure 7, the King of Cups (37 or 1) and the 2 of Cups (42 or 6) both correspond to the 1st decan of Cancer (0 degrees to 10 degrees Cancer). Here, the King acts in a role of royal protector ship, overshadowing the Two, which is at an earlier point in the cycle. Each card represents different manifestations of the same astrological energy. There are two other important cards in each suit: the knights and the aces. Each knight is pictured on horseback, representing movement and energy, and because of this symbolism the knights have come to represent entire seasons. Thus the Knight of Wands governs the spring, carrying the initial burst of Aries energy through the spring months of Aries, Taurus and Gemini, until the Sun reaches 0 degrees Cancer and the Knight of Cups begins his journey through the summer season. Just as each knight rules an entire season, each ace rules an entire element. The power inherent in the ace corresponds to all the manifestations of an element. Thus, the Ace of Swords corresponds to the entire element of air and rules the air signs Libra, Aquarius and Gemini.