year into 3 equal blocks of time to determine what is happening in each 4 month period of the year. We do this in the following manner. Place the personal year calculations in the first column. At the head of the 2nd column write the month of the birthday and the 4th month following; in our example, November to March. In the next column, place the following 4 months: March to July, and in the last column place the remaining 4 months, July to November. If the birth month were June, you would place June to October at the head of the 2nd column, October to February in the 3rd column and February to June in the 4th column. This simply divides the year into 3 four-month blocks beginning with the month of your birth. To find the experience of Ada’s 1st four-month block in 1975, add her age to the year 1975. She was 35 on November 12, 1975, so we will add 1975 and 35 to get 2010. We will then reduce 2010 by adding 2 + 0 + 1 + 0 to get 3. She will be under a 3 vibration from November 1975 to March 1976 of her personal year 45/9. In the 2nd block, covering March to July, we add the double digit of her Life Lesson Number 37 to the year 1975. 1975 + 37 is 2012, or 2 + 0 + 1 + 2 is 5. From March to July she will be operating under a 5 vibration. In the. 4th column under July to November, we will add the double digit of her Soul Number to the year 1975, or 1975 + 12 to get 1987. 1 + 9 + 8 + 7 is 25 or 7 vibration. Always add the unreduced double digit of the Life Lesson Number to the 3rd column and the unreduced double digit of the Soul Number to the 4th column. The delineations for these numbers are in Part 2 of this book under the Temporary Vibrations section of each individual number. Use the same procedure for any year. Why not figure your past personal year and period numbers to determine for yourself the accuracy of this method? Personal Month. It is even possible to find the personal month vibration which reveals the underlying trend of each month of the personal year. Simply add the number of the month in question (January is 1, February is 2, through December which is 12) to the double digit personal year number. Ada, in 1975, is in a 45 or 9 personal year. If we wish to find her vibration during the month of May, we add 5 for May (the 5th month of the year) to 45 for her personal year and arrive at 50 or 5 for her personal month. May will be a 50 or 5 personal month. Then read the delineations of number 5 and 50/5 in Part 2 under Temporary Vibrations for a more thorough analysis of the energies Ada is working with during the month of May in the year 1975. Since her birthday is November 12th, we would continue to work with the 45 or 9 personal year until November. We would then add the value of the month of November, 11, or December, 12, to the 46, rather than to the 45, because Ada entered a new personal year on her birthday. Ada is in a 6 period from March to July. This indicates a change in the home; Ada might possibly move during that period. We could then narrow it down to the month of May, because the base number 5 indicates change, movement and freedom. These personal month vibrations are minor and only help to locate the more important events during the year. Keywords for period numbers and personal months 1: new starts, action, originality, making decisions 2: harmony, cooperation, mediation, passivity 3: scattering, freedom, entertainment, self-expression 4: practicality, work, order, building foundations 5: change, freedom, new intellectual interests, travel 6: family, health, service, listening to others’ problems 7: self-analysis, achievement, health problems 8: business, power, responsibility, money 9: giving to others, endings, service 11: limelight, inspiration, religion 22: materialism, large endeavors 33: sacrifice, compassion for others 44: helping others resolve daily problems, counseling THREE: GOD GEOMETRIZES. THE SYMBOLOGY OF NUMBERS is universal; it contains eternal principles that cannot be modified by human will. Every manifestation is the product of the single digits 1 through 9. Geometry is the visual tool of the spirit world through which we can uncover any information needed to promote our understanding of ourselves and the world around us; in short, our evolution. All answers are there. An occult axiom states, “God geometrizes.” In this chapter, we attempt to explain what is meant by those 2 simple yet enigmatic words. Through the authors’ research, logic, work, meditation and intuition, the following concepts have emerged. Many ideas presented here have been accepted for ages, some are relatively recent, and the remaining are totally new. They make sense to us, and, for this reason, we present them to you. We can best begin by delineating the 4 basic shapes which form a numerical foundation for all numbers and shapes: The circle; the line; the triangle; and the square. The circle represents the Godhead, all that was, is and ever shall be; spirit, the I Am; love because it encompasses, enfolds and contains; balance, because however you turn it, it maintains its shape; and justice, because it is in a state of perfect balance. A circle contains 360 degrees. 3 + 6 + 0 is 9. 9 is the highest and final digit in the series of single digits; when multiplied by another number, the result always reduces again to 9. (2 times 9 is 18 or 9; 3 times 9 is 27 or 9; 4 times 9 is 36 or 9; and so on.) A circle has no beginning and no end; it is infinite and endless. The Lord said, “I am the Alpha and the Omega” (Revelations chapter 1, verse 11), the beginning and the end. The circle symbolizes eternity and the immortality of the soul. This is seen through the laws of nature and cyclicity. Planets revolve around the sun in a circular pattern; nature repeats itself in cycles; and, if we travel far enough out into space, we arrive at the same point from which we started (so scientists claim). The God energy is elliptical or round. It goes on and on, never ending. The ancients said, “God is a spherical intelligence whose center is everywhere and whose circumference is nowhere.” Behind the altar in many churches hangs a symbol of the cross surmounted on the God symbol, a circle. The upright vertical line symbolically represents spirit descending into matter, or energy leaving the Godhead. It has masculine qualities; it is outgoing, dynamic, energetic, fiery, upright and commanding. Every energy has an opposing polarity, and the horizontal line is such a symbol in relation to the vertical line. It represents the soul energy, the feminine, the receptive and absorptive qualities of mother earth. This line is an ancient symbol for matter and the material world. The triangle is the 1st closed form that can be made with single lines. It represents the Trinity, Father-Son-Holy Ghost, father-mother-God, father-mother-child, spirit-soul-mind, super-conscious, subconscious, conscious. In the 2 interlaced triangles, the Philosopher’s Diamond or the Star of David, geometry captures the axiom, “As above, so below.” We are made in the image of God. The upper triangle of the Philosopher’s Diamond is the father-mother-god which is reflected in the lower inverted triangle, father-mother-child. The upper triangle is the world of spirit, and the lower triangle is the world of matter. The Godhead from above is reflected in the material world below; therefore, what we see in the material world is merely a reflection of the truth. It is as if we are gazing into the depths of a cool forest pool, thinking the images we see are the only truth, although these images may be distorted by the wind rippling the surface of the water. We in the material body are merely observers of the shadows cast upon the walls of Plato’s cave. We live in a world of illusion and view things upside down. Geometry validates the theory that we see only half the truth. The following are mathematical truths: the sum of the angles of a triangle is 180 degrees; the sum of the angles of a square is 360 degrees; and a circle contains 360 degrees. By lowering the downward-pointing triangle of the Philosopher’s Diamond a bit, we have the illustration in the margin. Each of these triangles has only 180 degrees, or half the degrees of a circle or square (360 degrees). As we have shown, a circle contains all truth and wisdom; it is the Godhead. But in the triangle we have only half the truth. By adding these 2 triangles together, or 180 + 180, we arrive at 360 degrees, or all the truth. Symbolically situated in the lower inverted triangle, we must look to the spirit in the upper triangle to find all the truth, else we remain in a shadow land where the ill winds ripple our images and distort our vision of the truth. If the 2 triangles are turned to the side, they form a parallelogram of 4 sides, or a modified square. The square is the 2nd perfect shape that can be drawn with single lines; it is symbolic of the earth. The 4 appears in a number of ways: the 4 points on the compass; the 4 elements of fire, earth, air and water; the 4 points of the cross; the 40 days (an elevated 4), spent by Christ in the desert fighting earthly temptations; and salt crystallizing in cubes, a solidified 4. Finally, as the salt of the earth, we are all examples of the number 4. These are a few of the many references relating 4 to earth. The 4 sides of the square represent the 4 parts of the individual— with the physical body added to the triangle of mind, soul and spirit. Now, spirit has a soul, a mind and a body in which to work in the material world. By joining the 2 triangles of the Philosopher’s Diamond shown above, we arrive at the parallelogram, which like the circle, contains 360 degrees or all truths. This shows that complete attainment and fulfillment are possible here on earth in the physical body because the circle and the square both contain 360 degrees. Always remember, however, that spirit is contained within the body, just as the triangle preceded the square and is contained within it. Our body belongs to the earth, but our soul belongs to the spirit. Spirit is immortal because, as we have shown, the triangle existed before and independently of the square. But the square is totally dependent upon the triangle because the square is built upon it, following it in the natural order of things. Spirit cannot operate in the physical world without a material body, but it can operate in other worlds and dimensions. The material body contains and must reflect the Godhead for completion and fulfillment in the material world. “As above, so below.” Further examination of the Philosopher’s Diamond reveals deeper truths. Esoteric tradition teaches that the upper triangle is fire, and the lower triangle is water. We link fire to the spirit with such expressions as the living flame, the eternal flame; and the Bible speaks of the burning bush and the fiery fingers that etched the 10 Commandments on Moses’ tablets. Symbolically, water and the emotions are synonymous. We weep tears when we are emotional, happy or sad. Our common expressions equate water with the emotions in such phrases as rough sailing, stormy seas, "waves of feeling engulfed him" and so on. The major portion of our planet is water, known to be controlled by the moon, which also affects the stability of the human emotions. Spirit is linked to the mind, the head area, where the pineal and pituitary glands, the father and mother centers, are located. The watery emotions are centered in the heart. We are told that “the lion shall lie down with the lamb.” What we are being promised is that Leo the lion, ruler of the heart, shall lie with the lamb, or Aries the ram, ruler of the head. We shall have peace when the head and the heart are brought into perfect balance, when we think with our hearts and feel with our heads. The preceding analysis of geometrical forms has been preparation for the delineation of the Divine Triangle, the basis of which is the Pythagorean Theorem. The explanation of this blueprint can describe the magnitude or destiny of our lives. The blueprint is formed by the triangle of 3 parts of mind (mind-soul-spirit) added to the square of the physical body and matter. As you can see from the blueprint, the cross is also part of the Divine Triangle. Spirit descends into matter as shown in the illustration in the margin. We as human beings are stationed at the comer point where the 2 lines of the cross meet. At this point we are the recipients of the cosmic energy; therefore, these points represent an aspect of consciousness. The soul enters the body at point A and immediately begins its journey along the path which for the first 9 years will cover line AB. It then turns the corner at B and continues from B to C between the ages of 9 and 18. Upon reaching 18, it then turns and travels line CD for 9 years, until age 27. The first square ABDC has been formed. In this period of time, from age zero to 27, the mind and character are formed. Psychology and medicine bear this out. Plato said that one gains one’s soul at age 28, and astrologers will note that this closely corresponds to the first complete Saturn return which, at approximately age 29, has made 1 circuit on the natal chart, touching every planet, lending structure and form and crystallizing the energies emitted by each planet. As you can see, the soul, at point D, for the first time since entering the physical body, touches the fire of spirit. Therefore, between the ages of 27 and 29, we are in a precarious position; this is the 1st time the soul comes into contact with the fire of spirit, whose awareness it lost when it entered the body. Depending on the past use of our personal energies, it is at this age that we can be burned by the fire of destruction, or transmuted by the fire of spirit. This can be a painful, burning experience for those who are bound to the past and past conditionings, who cannot let go of those habits, opinions and beliefs that can restrict and encase them in the past. But, for those who use the experiences and learning of the past as a firm structure upon which to build the future, it is then that they are touched by the fiery flame of spirit, which reaches into their lives and inspires them to follow their true path of destiny. By observing the experiences in people’s lives between the ages of 27 and 29 we learn a great deal about how the fire can bum and destroy, or rekindle and transmute. We have established that the youth square of the Divine Triangle encompasses that period of time in which the process of building a sound mental structure is accomplished. In Pythagoras’s original theorem, the sides of the right triangle measured 3, 4 and 5 units of length. In figure 1, you can see that the youth square is built upon the side with the value of 3, which has an astrological correspondence to the planet Jupiter. With Jupiter as the foundation of the first 27 years of life, the principles of mental and spiritual expansion are at work. The youth square is the cornerstone, the mind, upon which the temple, the body, is built. Solomon, a wise numerologist, spoke of this cornerstone as the block upon which the power square, ages 27 to 54, will be placed. The power square has as its foundation line the horizontal side of the right triangle, with a value of 4, a number related to the earth. This implies that between the ages of 27 and 54 our life is spent dealing with the material plane and all that it encompasses. Certainly we can agree that most of us spend that portion of our lives using whatever power we have in striving for material gains and comforts in the form of job positions, salaries, housing and personal possessions; each is an aspect of the material plane. It is right and fitting that we should do this. We chose to incarnate in a material body to learn the lessons of the earth plane, and it is here in the power square that we are most intimately in touch with this particular learning process. You will note, however, that this square is a result of the square of the mind. The earth plane is the base line of this square, but the mind is the overseer, and indeed it is through the mind that we create our environment. It is here in this time span between the ages of 27 and 54 that we are free of the psychological restrictions and childhood conditionings of the youth square, free to make decisions about which way we want our lives to go. These decisions rest exclusively with the mind of the individual. The Bible says “As a man thinketh, so he is.” We cannot deny the profound effect that a positive attitude has upon the direction of our lives. Look around you. What you see is the result of the way you think. It has nothing to do with anyone else; it is yours and yours alone. If you are happy with your situation, then your mind is in order and well balanced. If you are not happy, then you and you alone have the power to change your present environment and relationships by making the decision that yes, you are a worthy person; and yes, you deserve to have all the material comforts you want; and yes, you should be loved and respected. Because it is only when you make the decision that you deserve and will have these things, that they will begin to come to you. Romans 12 verse 2 says: “Be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind.” At age 54 the 2nd building block has been completed, and the individual has established a body and a mind. We are known by the way we look, and by the way we think. Notice, however, that at age 54 we are experiencing the same transitional phenomenon we did at age 27. This point roughly corresponds to the 2nd complete Saturn return, and brings with it the same choices and results we confronted between the ages of 27 and 29. Here again at 54, for the 2nd time in our life, we come into direct contact with the center triangle of spirit, our own true inner self. Will the inner self express approval of our past efforts and reward us with the fruits of our labor? Or will the inner self instead hand us dried dead fruits, scorched by the burning fire of destruction? Whatever we reap, rest assured we have sown. The universal law of balance brings only justice. The law of physics that for every action there is an equal and opposite reaction has precedence here. It is swift and sure and without emotion, pure justice in action, but it is the result of our own past actions. We are always in control. If we have not sown wisely in the past, it is at this point that we can easily make the decision to change our direction. The future is ours to create. The wisdom square, which is the structure of the soul, is built upon the line assigned the value 5, astrologically a Mercury number. The ages 54 to 81, which the wisdom square encompasses, is thus a period in life given to much introspection. We reflect upon the past, its failures and accomplishments; the present, at what station in life we find ourselves; and the future, such issues as death and the immortality of the soul. In mythology, Mercury was the messenger of the deities, the connecting communication link between the gods of heaven and the mortals on earth. Symbolically, this fleet-footed messenger is the mind, the connection between soul and body, which, in the period of life between 54 and 81, must now turn from the material world and build the bridge between the physical world and the world of Spirit. This is accomplished through reflection, reason, order, logic and understanding; all mercurial qualities. This bridge between the physical and spiritual will be achieved through a synthesis of the results of the previous processes. In the youth square, mind was formed and conditioned and expanded; in the power square, mind had to operate in the world of form on its own, as a single independent entity. Now, in the wisdom square, the mind must analyze the results of the soul’s evolution through the various stages up to this point and begin to assimilate these findings into the soul’s growth experience up to the time the transition process of death occurs. For those of us who live through this square and reach the magic age of 81, there is a three-pronged fork at which we must choose a future path. We may decide to leave the body, at which point we will die and follow the ascending arrow out of the blueprint back to the source from which we came. Or we may decide to stay in the body, which implies that we will proceed in one of 2 directions, depending on the type of seeds we have sown in the past. Life past 81 is decidedly karmic. If we have wasted our life energies and left naught but destruction and unhappiness in our wake, we may very well take the path we originally trod at birth, that first horizontal line on the youth square, ages zero to 9. Because the line encompasses childhood we too will become childlike (senile) and need to be cared for like an infant. The 3rd path is for those who have sown wisely, who have used the precious God-given life energies and have honored the body temple in service to the material world through understanding, compassion and love towards others. On this sacred path, the few are revered and honored because their very presence blesses those near. Their touch is healing, and their words express the music of the spheres, inspiring and lifting the weary heart. Blessed are those who tread this path, for theirs is the destiny of supreme devotion to life. Chapter 4 instructs you in how to place your birth name and birth date on the Divine Triangle to work with your personal life blueprint. FOUR: THE DIVINE TRIANGLE. IN THIS CHAPTER, we will explain how to place your birth name and birth date on the Divine Triangle and discover the events which you will experience in this lifetime. The Life Theorem of Pythagoras is the basis of the Divine Triangle, and as you can see from the blueprint shown earlier, his right triangle is the foundation upon which each of the squares is built. The information that is about to be revealed to you is unique. To our knowledge it has never been published before. Very likely it was lost in the great fire that destroyed the fabulous library at Alexandria many centuries ago. Priceless parchments containing the wisdom of many masters were lost. Faith’s teacher learned the method for using this blueprint from the master KH who, according to some sources, was formerly Pythagoras. Perhaps Pythagoras taught this method to his disciples. Regardless of one’s belief in such things, the blueprint does work; therefore, in our minds, it is valid. Try it for yourself and see. Drawing the Blueprint. The blueprint is set up as follows. The right triangle of Pythagoras occupies the center. Squares are built on each side of the triangle. Each of the 3 lines drawn to complete the square represents 9 years of life. We begin on line AB at the point of entrance indicated by the arrow in figure 2. The lines represent the ages as follows: Line AB: Ages zero to 9 Line BC: Ages 9 to 18 Line CD: Ages 18 to 27 Line DE: Ages 27 to 36 Line EF: Ages 36 to 45 Line FG: Ages 45 to 54 Line GH: Ages 54 to 63 Line HI: Ages 63 to 72 Line IA: Ages 72 to 81 On the figure 2 blueprint, we see that the youth square covers the ages from birth to 27. The power square covers the ages 27 to 54. The wisdom square covers ages 54 through 81. After age 81, we begin again on the youth square, but this time on a higher vibration. Become thoroughly acquainted with the blueprint before proceeding. If you familiarize yourself with it now, the following process will be much easier to understand. Labeling the Blueprint. The Birth date: Using our example, Ada Wynn Lunt, we will place her birth date, November 12, 1940, on the triangle in the center of the blueprint. The birth month 11 goes on the vertical line AD; the birthdate on the horizontal line DG; and the birth year 1940 on the hypotenuse AG. We reduce the double digits. Here the number 11 becomes 2, the number 12 becomes 3, and the year 1940 reduces to 14 and then 5. If the birth month and birth date were single digits, such as May 4, you would simply place 5 for May on line AD and 4 for the day on line DG. The Name: The value of the letters in your name is placed on the lines of the squares. Place the letter and its value on each line. In our example, Ada Wynn Lunt, the letter of the first name, A, and its value, 1, is placed on line AB of the youth square. Place the 2nd letter, D, and its value, 4, on line BC. Place the 3rd letter of the name, A, and its value, 1, on line CD. This completes the youth square, which represents the ages from birth to When you come to the end of your 1st name, place an X on that corner, for it marks an important time in your development. Changes will occur, or a definite event will change your outlook in some way. We place an X at point D because we have completed Ada’s 1st name. Continue with the power square. Place the next letter of the name, in this case W, and its value, 23 or 5, on line DE. Put the following letter, Y, and its value, 25 or 7, on line EF. Put the next letter, N, and its value, 14 or 5, on line FG. This completes the power square, which represents the ages 27 to 54. On the wisdom square, place the next letter of the name, N, and its value, 14 or 5, on line GH. At this point we place another X, because this marks the end of the middle name. The last name is never used on the blueprint, because it is a family vibration and not uniquely your own. Therefore, when you run out of letters, you begin the first name over again. So, in our example, we begin again with the first name. Figure 3: Blueprint for Ada Wynn Lunt, born November 12, 1940. Place the 1st letter of the first name, A, and its value, 1, on line HI. Place the 2nd letter of the first name, D, and its value, 4, on the remaining line, IA. This completes the wisdom square which represents ages 54 to 81. If you or the subject is older than 81, begin again on the new square. The Totals. Now that we have placed the name and birth date on the blueprint, we add the 4 sides of each square for a total which is placed in the center of the square. Always add the higher, unreduced digit in this process. In the youth square, we add 1 + 4 + 1 + 11 for a total of 17 or 8. Place the number 17 or 8 in the center of the youth square. In the power square, add 23 + 25 + 14 + 12 and place the total, 74 or 11, in the center of the square. 74 or 11 is a master number and is not reduced further. In the wisdom square, add 14 + 1 + 4 + 14 for a total of 33 which is placed in the center of the square. 33 is a master number and is not reduced further. Now add the 3 sides of the triangle for a fourth total which is placed in the center of the triangle. Always add the higher digits. 11 + 12 + 14 is 37 or 1. Place 37 or 1 in the center of the triangle. Notice that 37 or 1 is the Life Lesson Number. The number in the center of the triangle is always the Life Lesson Number. Figure 3 shows how the blueprint will look when the totals are written in. The number in the center of the youth square is an umbrella vibration that covers the period of life from birth to age 27; the number in the center of the power square is the fundamental vibration that covers the ages from 27 to 54; and the number in the center of the wisdom square is the fundamental vibration influencing the years from 54 to 81. To find out what each vibration has to offer for that period in your life, turn to Part 2 of this book and read the Temporary Vibration delineation for that number. Here is one more example. 65 or 11 is a master number and is not reduced further. As explained in the introduction, we do not use numbers that exceed 78; so we reduce 99 to 18 or 9. The Figure 4 Blueprint for Mary Geraldine Charles is pictured here. Determining the Line Experiences. We know there are 9 single digits, and every double digit reduces to a single one. Consequently, there are only 9 phases through which you can pass in life. Each phase lasts 9 years; therefore, it takes 81 years to complete the 9 phases. Each of the 9 lines outside the triangle represents 9 years of life; therefore, the number on any given line will influence that 9 year period. For example, Ada Wynn Lunt has a 4 on line BC, which covers the ages 9 to 18; she will be under the 4 vibration during those years. Each line of the blueprint reveals 8 experiences. Two different methods are used to compute the types of experience to be faced. The 1st method, which is traditionally called the major process yields 6 types of experience and covers 27 years, giving a wide perspective. The 2nd method, or minor process, yields 2 types of experiences and focuses on a 9 year period to give a more specific delineation. The words major and minor refer only to the lengths of the time spans involved. The experiences revealed by the minor process may be just as important as the ones revealed by the major process. However, the minor experiences may have a more current effect, whereas the major experiences have more of a long range effect. By the time you reach 81 years of age, you will have traveled over 9 lines in the blueprint and have had 72 experiences. Let us now examine the methods used to arrive at these experiences and the ages at which they will occur. The descriptions for these experiences can be found in Part 2 under the Temporary Vibration delineations for the numbers. The Major Process. As we go around the triangle for the experiences revealed by the major process, we will be using 3 sets of numbers, one set in each step: Step 1: the numbers in the center of the square. Step 2: the numbers on the side of the triangle. Step 3: the numbers in the center of the triangle. These numbers will be added to or subtracted from the ages on each end of the line we are working on. We always use a single digit to add or subtract from the ages on the line. If you have a master number, reduce it to its base number. For example, master number 33 would become a 6. To illustrate, we will use the figure 3 blueprint of our example, Ada Wynn Lunt to ascertain what sort of experiences she might have at various times in her life. Line AB: Use 0 and 9, the ages at each end of the line AB. Step 1: Use the numbers in the center of the square, 17 or 8. To age 0, add the single digit; from age 9 subtract the single digit. 0 + 8 is 8. 9 minus 8 is 1. At ages 1 and 8 there was a 17 or 8 experience. Step 2: Use the numbers on the side of the triangle, 11 or 2. To age 0, add the single digit; from age 9 subtract the single digit. 0 + 2 is 2. 9 minus 2 is 7. At ages 2 and 7 there was an 11 or 2 experience. Step 3: Use the numbers in the center of the triangle, 37 or 1. To age 0, add the single digit; from age 9 subtract the single digit. 0 + 1 is 1. 9 minus 1 is 8. At ages 1 and 8 there was a 37 or 1 experience. Line BC: Use 9 and 18, the ages at each end of the line. Step 1: Use the numbers in the center of the square, 17 or 8. To age 9, add the single digit; from age 18 subtract the single digit. 9 + 8 is 17. 18 minus 8 is 10. At age 10 and 17 there was a 17 or 8 experience. Step 2: Use the numbers on the side of the triangle. To age 9, add the single digit; from age 18 subtract the single digit. 9 + 2 is 11. 18 minus 2 is 16. At ages 11 and 16 there was an 11 or 2 experience. Step 3: Use the numbers in the center of the triangle, 37. To age 9 add the single digit; from age 18 subtract the single digit. 9 + 1 is 10. 18 minus 1 is 17. At ages 10 and 17 there was a 37 or 1 experience. Line CD: Use 18 and 27, the ages at each end of the line. Step 1: Use the numbers in the center of the square, 17 or 8. To age 18 add the single digit; from age 27 subtract the single digit. 18 + 8 is 26. 27 minus 8 is 19. At ages 19 and 26, there was a 17 or 8 experience. Step 2: Use the numbers on the side of the triangle, 11 or 2. To age 18 add the single digit; from age 27 subtract the single digit. 18 + 2 is 20. 27 minus 2 is 25. At ages 20 and 25 there was an 11 or 2 experience. Step 3: Use the numbers in the center of the triangle, 37 or 1. To age 18 add the single digit; from age 27 subtract the single digit. 18 + 1 is 19. 27 minus 1 is 26. At ages 19 and 26, there was a 37 or 1 experience. The table on the next page summarizes the information we derived from Ada Wynn Lunt’s youth square. Now let us see what we can find out about Ada Wynn Lunt’s power years, 27 to 54, by looking at her power square. Line DE: Use 27 and 36, the ages at each end of the line. Step 1: Use the numbers in the center of the square, 74 or 11. To age 27 add the single digit; from age 36 subtract the single digit. Since we always use a single digit to compute the line experience, we reduce the master number 11 to its base number 2. 27 + 2 is 29. 36 minus 2 is 34. At ages 29 and 34 there was a 74 or 11 experience. Step 2: Use the numbers on the side of the triangle, 12 or 3. To age 27 add the single digit; from age 36 subtract the single digit. 27 + 3 is 30. 36 minus 3 is 33. At ages 30 and 33 there was a 12 or 3 experience. Step 3: Use the numbers in the center of the triangle, 37 or 1. To age 27 add the single digit; from age 36 subtract the single digit. 27 + 1 is 28. 36 minus 1 is 35. At ages 28 and 35 there was a 37 or 1 experience. Line EF: Use 36 and 45, the ages at each end of the line. Step 1: Use the numbers in the center of the square, 74 or 11. To age 36 add the single digit; from age 45 subtract the single digit. Reduce master number 11 to its base number 2. 36 + 2 is 38. 45 minus 2 is 43. At ages 38 and 43 there will be a 74 or 11 experience. Step 2: Use the numbers on the side of the triangle, 12 or 3. To age 36 add the single digit; from age 45 subtract the single digit. 36 + 3 is 39. 45 minus 3 is 42. At ages 39 and 42 there will be a 12 or 3 experience. Step 3: Use the numbers in the center of the triangle, 37 or 1. To age 36 add the single digit; from age 45 subtract the single digit. 36 + 1 is 37. 45 minus 1 is 44. At ages 37 and 44 there will be a 37 or 1 experience. Line FG Use 45 and 54, the ages at each end of the line. Step 1: Use the numbers in the center of the square, 74 or 11. To age 45 add the single digit; from age 54 subtract the single digit. Reduce master number 11 to its base number 2. 45 + 2 is 47. 54 minus 2 is 52. At ages 47 and 52 there will be a 74 or 11 experience. Step 2: Use the numbers on the side of the triangle, 12 or 3. To age 45 add the single digit; from age 54 subtract the single digit. 45 + 3 is 48. 54 minus 3 is 51. At ages 48 and 51 there will be a 12 or 3 experience. Step 3: Use the numbers in the center of the triangle, 37 or 1. To age 45 add the single digit; from age 54 subtract the single digit. 45 + 1 is 46. 54 minus 1 is 53. At ages 46 and 53 there will be a 37 or 1 experience. The above table summarizes the information we derived from Ada Wynn Lunt’s power square. The two righthand columns give the age at which each experience will occur and the number that represents the quality of each experience. To find out what the quality of each of those experiences will be, she would look up each of those numbers as Temporary Vibrations in Part 2 of this book. For example, at age 29, Ada will have a 74 or 11 experience. 74 or 11 as a Temporary Vibration is delineated on page 250. Now let us look at Ada Wynn Lunt’s wisdom square and see what we can find out about her life from ages 54 to 81. Line GH: Use 54 and 63, the ages at each end of the line. Step 1: Use the numbers in the center of the square, 33. To age 54 add the single digit 6 (33 reduced); from age 63 subtract the single digit 6. 54 + 6 is 60. 63 minus 6 is 57. At ages 57 and 60 there will be a 33 experience. Step 2: Use the numbers on the side of the triangle, 14 or 5. To age 54 add the single digit; from age 63 subtract the single digit. 54 + 5 is 59. 63 minus 5 is 58. At ages 58 and 59 there will be a 14 or 5 experience. Step 3: Use the numbers in the center of the triangle, 37 or 1. To age 54 add the single digit; from age 63 subtract the single digit. 54 + 1 is 55. 63 minus 1 is 62. At ages 55 and 62 there will be a 37 or 1 experience. Line HI: Use 63 and 72, the ages at each end of the line. Step 1: Use the number in the center of the square, 33. To age 63 add the single digit 6 (33 reduced); from age 72 subtract the single digit 6. 63 + 6 is 69. 72 minus 6 is 66. At ages 66 and 69 there will be a 33 or 6 experience. Step 2: Use the numbers on the side of the triangle, 14 or 5. To age 63 add the single digit; from age 72 subtract the single digit. 63 + 5 is 68. 72 minus 5 is 67. At ages 67 and 68 there will be a 14 or 5 experience. Step 3: Use the numbers in the center of the triangle, 37 or l. To age 63 add the single digit; from age 72 subtract the single digit. 63 + 1 is 64. 72 minus 1 is 71. At ages 64 and 71 there will be a 37 or 1 experience. Line IA: Use 72 and 81, the ages at each end of the line. Step 1: Use the numbers in the center of the square, 33. To age 72 add the single digit 6 (33 reduced); from age 81 subtract the single digit. 72 + 6 is 78. 81 minus 6 is 75. At ages 75 and 78 there will be a 33 experience. Step 2: Use the numbers on the side of the triangle, 14 or 5. To age 72 add the single digit; from age 81 subtract the single digit. 72 + 5 is 77. 81 minus 5 is 76. At ages 76 and 77 there will be a 14 or 5 experience. Step 3: Use the numbers in the center of the triangle, 37 or 1. To age 72 add the single digit; from age 81 subtract the single digit. 72 + 1 is 73. 81 minus 1 is 80. At ages 73 and 80 there will be a 37 or 1 experience. The following table summarizes the experiences of Ada’s wisdom years. This concludes our discussion of the experiences revealed by the major process. You may have noticed that Ada had more experiences at certain ages than at others, for example at ages one and eight. It is common to find more than one event happening in your life at any given year. Often, many events occur simultaneously, and if they do, the blueprint will reflect this. Since Ada has many 1’s on her blueprint (A is 1, and her Life Lesson Number is 1), the 1 will be used more often in addition and subtraction, yielding an abundance of events at the same age. This suggests that some years in our lives will be more active than others, which we know is true. You will also notice that the numbers in the center of the squares and on the sides of the triangle are often activated, but the Life Lesson Number, in the center of the triangle, is activated on each line of the blueprint. The Life Lesson must be learned; it is therefore repeated more than any number on the blueprint. The Minor Process. This time we have 3 steps and 2 sets of numbers. Again we use the ages at each end of the line, but this time we use the number value of the letters in the name under consideration. Step 1: Use the single digit on the line to determine the two ages when the experiences will take place. Step 2: Use the higher number in the center of the square to determine the younger age experience. Step 3: Use the higher number on the side of the triangle to determine the older age experience. Since we use our name in the minor process, the experiences are more personal. Whereas two people may have the same birth date, it is highly unlikely that their birth names would be identical. Your birth date makes up the numbers on your triangle; it also makes up your Life Lesson Number. You always use the triangle numbers to compute your older age experience because the older you are, the more you are dominated by your Life Lesson Number. And, we can assume, the older you are, the more capable you are of coping with your life lesson. Remember, the numbers representing your birth date are your most important numbers. Now let us apply the minor process to Ada Wynn Lunt’s youth square and see what we find. Line AB: Use 0 and 9, the ages at each end of the line. Step 1: Use the single digit on line AB, which is 1. To age 0 add the single digit; from age 9 subtract the single digit. 0 + 1 is 1. 9 minus 1 is 8. Step 2: For the younger age experience (age 1): add the higher number on the line to the higher number in the center of the square. 1 + 17 is 18 or 9. At the age of 1 there was an 18 or 9 experience. Step 3: For the older age experience (age 8): add the higher number on the line to the higher number on the side of the triangle. 1 + 11 is 12 or 3. At the age of 8, there was a 12 or 3 experience. Line BC: Use 9 and 18, the ages at each end of the line. Step 1: Use the single digit on line BC, which is 4. To age 9 add the single digit; from age 18 subtract the single digit. 9 + 4 is 13. 18 minus 4 is 14. Step 2: For the younger age experience (age 13): add the higher number on the line to the higher number in the center of the square. 4 + 17 is 21 or 3. At the age of 13 there was a 21 or 3 experience. Step 3: For the older age experience (age 14): add the higher number on the line to the higher number on the side of the triangle. 4 + 11 is 15 or 6. At the age of 14 there was a 15 or 6 experience. Line CD: Use 18 and 27, the ages at each end of the line. Step 1: Use the single digit on line CD, which is 1. To age 18 add the single digit; from age 27 subtract the single digit. 18 + 1 is 19. 27 minus 1 is 26. Step 2: For the younger age experience (age 19): add the higher number on the line to the higher number in the center of the square. 1 + 17 is 18 or 9. At the age of 19 there was an 18 or 9 experience. Step 3: For the older age experience (age 26): add the higher number on the line to the higher number on the side of the triangle. 1 + 11 is 12 or 3. At the age of 26 there was a 12 or 3 experience. Now let us look at Ada’s power square using the minor process. Line DE: Use 27 and 36, the ages at each end of the line. Step 1: Use the single digit on the line, which is 5. To age 27 add the single digit; from age 36 subtract the single digit. 27 + 5 is 32. 36 minus 5 is 31. Step 2: For the younger age experience (age 31): add the higher number on the line to the higher number in the center of the square. 23 + 74 is 97, which becomes 16, or 7. At the age of 31 there was a 16 or 7 experience. Step 3: For the older age experience (age 32): add the higher number on the line to the higher number on the side of the triangle. 23 + 12 is 35 or 8. At the age of 32 there was a 35 or 8 experience. Line EF: Use 36 and 45, the ages at each end of the line. Step 1: Use the single digit on line EF which is 7. To age 36 add the single digit; from age 45 subtract the single digit. 36 + 7 is 43. 45 minus 7 is 38. Step 2: For the younger age experience (age 38): add the higher number on the line to the higher number in the center of the square. 25 + 74 is 99, which becomes 18 or 9. At the age of 38 there will be an 18 or 9 experience. Step 3: For the older age experience (age 43): add the higher number on the line to the higher number on the side of the triangle. 25 + 12 is 37 or 1. At the age of 43 there will be a 37 or 1 experience. Line FG: Use 45 and 54, the ages at each end of the line. Step 1: Use the single digit on the line, which is 5. To age 45 add the single digit; from age 54 subtract the single digit. 45 + 5 is 50. 54 minus 5 is 49. Step 2: For the younger age experience (age 49): add the higher number on the line to the higher number in the center of the square. 14 + 74 is 88, which becomes 16 or 7. At the age of 49 there will be a 16 or 7 experience. Step 3: For the older age experience (age 50): add the higher number on the line to the higher number on the side of the triangle 14 + 12 is 26 or 8. At age 50 there will be a 26 or 8 experience. And finally, we will use the minor process to examine Ada Wynn Lunt’s wisdom square and foresee the kinds of experiences she will have from ages 54 to 81. Line GH: Use 54 and 63, the ages at each end of the line. Step 1: Use the single digit on the line, which is 5. To age 54 add the single digit; from age 63 subtract the single digit. 54 + 5 is 59. 63 minus 5 is 58. Step 2: For the younger age experience (age 58): add the higher number on the line to the higher number in the center of the square. 14 + 33 is 47 or 11. At age 58 there will be a 47 or 11 experience. Step 3: For the older age experience (age 59): add the higher number on the line to the higher number on the side of the triangle. 14 + 14 is 28 or 1. At the age of 59 there will be a 28 or 1 experience. Line HI: Use 63 and 72, the ages at each end of the line. Step 1: Use the single digit on the line, which is 1. To age 63 add the single digit; from age 72 subtract the single digit. 63 + 1 is 64. 72 minus 1 is 71. Step 2: For the younger age experience (age 64): add the higher number on the line to the higher number in the center of the square. 1 + 33 is 34 or 7. At age 64 there will be a 34 or 7 experience. Step 3: For the older age experience (age 71): add the higher number on the line to the higher number on the side of the triangle. 1 + 14 is 15 or 6. At the age of 71 there will be a 15 or 6 experience. Line IA: Use 72 and 81, the ages at each end of the line. Step 1: Use the single digit on the line, which is 4. To age 72 add the single digit; from age 81 subtract the single digit. 72 + 4 is 76. 81 minus 4 is 77. Step 2: For the younger age experience (age 76): add the higher number on the line to the higher number in the center of the square. 4 + 33 is 37 or 1. At age 76 there will be a 37 or 1 experience. Step 3: For the older age experience (age 77): add the higher number on the line to the higher number on the side of the triangle. 4 + 14 is 18 or 9. At age 77 there will be an 18 or 9 experience. This completes our discussion of the line experiences of an individual from birth to age 81. We suggest at this point that you select the names and birthdates of your family and friends, place them on the blueprint, and work out their line experiences. This will accomplish 2 goals: 1. you will become familiar with the procedure, and 2. you will be able to correlate what you find with the individual’s past experiences and discover for yourself how effective the blueprint really is. After 81. Those not in possession of their mental faculties at age 81 must begin their youth squares over again with the 1st letter of the first name, as in childhood. Assuming that Ada keeps her wits about her after 81, we do the calculations in the same way but with new letters on the lines. Since Ada left line IA with a D on it (see figure 3) we begin her new youth square with the second A of ADA WYNN on line AB. A is l. W is 23 or 5, and goes on line BC. Y is 25 or 7 and goes on line CD. The number on the side of the triangle (her birth month) is still 11. The total for her new youth square is 1 + 23 + 25 + 11 is 60 or 6. Figure 5: New Youth Square for Ada Wynn Lunt after Age 81. After age 81, if you are still mentally alert, each line of your new square equals 21 years, rather than nine as in the first youth square. Up to age 81, you have completed nine cycles of nine years. After 81, you live under a trinity or three 7-year spiritual cycles. You have reached a higher level of consciousness; therefore each new line covers 21 years. Applying the major process to the first line of the new youth square, here is what we find. Step 1: We use the 60 or 6 from the center of the square and the ages at either end of line AB. 81 + 6 is 87. 102 minus 6 is 96. She will have 60 or 6 experiences at ages 87 and 96. Step 2: We use the numbers on the side of the triangle, 11 or 2, and the ages at either end of line AB 81 + 2 is 83. 102 minus 2 is 100. At ages 83 and 100, she will have 11 or 2 experiences. Step 3: We use the numbers in the center of the triangle, 37 or 1, and the ages at either end of line AB. 81 + 1 is 82. 102 minus 1 is 101. She will have 37 or 1 experiences at ages 82 and 101. Now we will apply the minor process to Ada’s new youth square. Step 1: We use the single digit on line AB, 1, and the ages at either end of the line. 81 + 1 is 82. 102 minus 1 is 101. Step 2: To determine the younger age experience, we add the unreduced number on the line to the unreduced number in the center of the square. 1 + 60 is 61 or 7. Ada will have a 61 or 7 experience at age 82. Step 3: To determine the older age experience, we add the unreduced number on the line to the unreduced number on the side of the triangle. 1 + 11 is 12 or 3. Ada will have a 12 or 3 experience at age 101. FIVE: MORE WITH NUMBERS. THIS CHAPTER DISCUSSES four additional techniques based on your personal numbers. It would be impossible to contain within one book all the possible methods one could employ to work with numbers and number combinations. Here are just a few. We hope you enjoy them. The ABC’s. You have seen how to make a life analysis by using the number found in your name and your birthdate on the Divine Triangle. Along with this method, in which the numbers represented by each letter in your name are added to each other to get the Path of Destiny Number, it is also possible to delineate further by evaluating each letter separately and in sequence. The numbers represented by each separate letter have an underlying influence on your life and affect the total energies at work at any given time. You should read the delineations of each number in your name in conjunction with the information on your blueprint. When a number represented by one of the letters in your name is found on a line of your blueprint, that letter is emphasized and that age span is called a peak cycle. A letter is also emphasized if it appears three or more times in your name or if it is the first vowel or the first letter of your name. A letter acts as a health factor whenever the letter is at peak cycle. The 1’s. A IS THE HEAD LETTER, powerful and complete. You are good intellectually and require several outlets for your energies. You are not a builder but a planner, and you want others to carry out your plans. You have lots of ideas and begin many projects but do not always finish them. A is a letter of initiative, self-reliance and will power. A at a peak cycle brings activity and the opportunity for new starts. You can achieve leadership in business or in the community. This is a time to learn the lessons of self-reliance and double your resolution to get ahead through your own efforts. A as a health indicator means to watch out for the lungs or diseases of the respiratory system. J IS A, STEPPED UP NINE DEGREES; therefore, it is a more intense vibration. Materially and spiritually, it is full of high aspirations, which are necessary to develop more profound powers. You are honest, benevolent, brilliant and often inventive. J at a peak cycle nearly always means gain and advantage in some form. You should extend a helping hand to those less fortunate and keep your spirits high if you want to enjoy good fortune in the rhythm of J. Willing or not, you will be put in a position of leadership, and if this extends to business, promotions will result. You may also be a leader in family affairs. Through the letter J you will almost always experience gain and advantage in some form. J as a health factor gives a feeling of well-being. S IS A LETTER OF ENDURANCE. The ancients called it “the letter of surrender.” You are spiritually intense and can sting or charm. S brings love and new starts into life and attracts money, but it is not always a happy letter. S at a peak cycle will triumph over obstacles to attain ambitions. There will be many turnings in your life’s path. If you are responding negatively to this letter, there will be emotional upheavals, failure and uncontrolled impulses. Be positive. S as a health factor may sharpen an illness but it also tends to bring recovery and reduce trouble, thus creating better conditions. The 2’s. B IN A WOMAN’S NAME indicates mother love. B in a man’s name means love of nature and domesticity. It is not a strong material letter. You can go to great heights and equally great depths. You are emotional and fixed in your opinions. Your instinct is to follow others. You are hospitable, but if B is negatively expressed, you become selfish. B at a peak cycle is influenced by psychological currents. This letter brings strong desire for partnerships or marriage. The lesson is patience, calmness and serenity of mind. Decisions should be left to others. This is a cycle of hidden development which may not be recognized by others. B as a health factor can cause nervousness, headaches and emotional upsets. K MEANS EXTREMES in fortune, health and spirituality. You are very versatile, idealistic and intuitive. You either enjoy great success or suffer abject misery. The solution is service to others. Use your leadership abilities for humanity and not for self-glorification. K at a peak cycle displays creative inspiration and idealism. It should be directed toward a positive goal, or this cycle may result in conflict. There is great emotional force here for either intense romantic experience or spiritual exaltation. It brings travel and change and can bring success if caution is used. K as a health factor indicates nervousness, which may come from overactivity. But it is a good force, giving strength and endurance. T WILL EITHER BUILD or break down, save or slay the human race. You like to control everyone within your influence, to shape things to your own liking. You have to learn self-control, as you are very emotional and can be swayed. If positive, you develop high spirituality, as the quality of the 2 is reinforced by the 0 of God’s protection. T at a peak cycle represents reconstruction. This influence creates a sense of restlessness unless ideas are expressed through practical activity that can benefit humanity. Time should not be wasted nor idleness tolerated. This is a time to work for better world conditions. It is also a time of spiritual growth. T as a health factor indicates stress through change or travel. If it is with an A, there can be accidents and operations. The 3’s. C IS SCATTERED ENERGY. 3 is a scattering vibration because it wants to go in many directions at once. If C is the first letter, you have a jovial nature but are apt to have an emotional life. You find it difficult to save money. You like to have several lines of effort going at once. You are a good talker and promoter and seldom worry over anything. At times, you can be impatient, irritable and impulsive, and if negative, careless and immoral. C at a peak cycle favors artistic, political or business success. It is good for self-expression, productivity and growth. There should be rich emotional experiences, prosperity and happiness. This is a strong marriage vibration. C as a health factor may cause concern with the throat, thyroid and vocal cords. L GATHERS where C scatters. You always bring to completion anything you start. You are generous but want returns from your giving. L as a whip symbol indicates action, and since you have executive ability, you are a leader. You are moral, balanced, honest and intellectual, and you may attain spirituality. L indicates travel. L at a peak cycle brings service and self-sacrifice, but also rich rewards in human relationships. Creative ideas bring profit. This letter can bring marriage and increasing concern with financial matters. L as a health factor suggests paying attention to the throat, which is true under all 3’s. Two L’s together tend toward accidents or falls. U HAS THE UNIVERSAL spirit of both the C and the L. U is shaped like a cup that holds the gifts of talent, charm and luck, but if you become greedy and try to fill your cup too full, you may lose through selfishness. You are an enthusiastic collector and you will be tenacious in holding onto the things you accumulate. U is called the rocker letter, and you can be a victim of indecision. While you are deciding, someone else may take things away from you. You have a good memory and should make an effort to have a positive attitude. U at a peak cycle indicates a time for subconscious development. There may be delays and restrictions now, and family responsibilities can increase, but there is a growing sense of security and protection. Marriage is activated. Be cautious under a U, because things tend to slip away, often through a personal fault, such as overlooking and neglecting to grasp an opportunity. Matters should be examined carefully, and a lawyer consulted in business deals. U as a health factor tends to bring loss and anxiety. Worries cause other ills, such as high blood pressure. Strive to remain calm and at peace within. The 4’s. D IS BALANCE. It acts as a good anchor. You are strong in material matters, determined and stubborn. You have good business ability. You are a good worker, steady and practical, a builder who takes responsibility well. These qualities may bring you a position of authority and power. D at a peak cycle represents a striving to lay a firm foundation for the future. Temporary delays are possible, but valuable lessons in patience can be learned. Speculation should be avoided and conservatism practiced. Travel is possible. D as a health factor is not notable unless there are two D’s together. That can indicate unhappy travel situations and unfortunate probings into your business or personal affairs, which could adversely affect your health. M SPIRITUALIZES the attributes of the D and is more idealistic. You are not a leader but will carry on for others. You have psychic powers. You may have to carry burdens in this life, but there is no one who bears the cross more bravely and with so little complaint. You have a receptive nature and may bear burdens for others because of the sacrificial aspects of this vibration. You like home and security above all. M at a peak cycle looks for regeneration and renewal. It is a reconstruction period when old ideas are swept away to make room for better ones. Unexpected changes can occur now, and they should be recognized as a door to progress where a new phase of happiness will open. M as a health factor can indicate temper, causing rash behavior and headaches. Because of the potential for drastic changes, more than one M can be dangerous unless dealt with carefully. Two of any letter doubles its effects. V IS THE MASTER BUILDER. You are fixed in your opinions, firm in your friendships and square in your dealings with others. You are an excellent worker. Since you are both possessive and emotional, you can be either very practical or very impractical and unpredictable. Your dual nature needs to become steadfast. You are the marrying kind. V at a peak cycle has the potential of wanderlust coupled with too much generosity or extravagance with money. If V appears together with U there could be losses in speculation or gambling. At the worst, there could be dissipation and excess—at best, courage in the face of difficulties. V as a health factor can cause nervous and emotional breakdowns through overactivity. Cultivate peace within. The 5’s. E IS A STRONG VOWEL ruled by Mercury, the cosmic messenger. You are fine when in harmony but changeable when in discord, because many of your best qualities are then reversed. You are more attracted to the worldly than to the spiritual. You are entertaining but may be impulsive. Freedom is a necessity, and you find it difficult to settle down to specialize. Your versatility results in many changes, and often brings travel. Your fine intellect is capable of high honors if applied seriously. If you are drawn to the spiritual, you become idealistic, hopeful and intuitive. E at a peak cycle will have to choose among many chances for change. There will be constant activity, new people and new situations. If you are single, there is the opportunity now for marriage, but you should be sure it is true love rather than emotional impulse. E as a health factor indicates good health. The heart feels free, but impulsiveness should be controlled. N IS THE ANCIENT SYMBOL for a scribe; therefore, this letter implies a person with a vivid imagination who can bring inspired messages to the world. You must remain positive, or instability will result. You like to enjoy the pleasures of life, and when self is overcome, you can rise to the heights. Envy, jealousy and divorce are common to someone whose name contains an N. N at a peak cycle brings variety, change and experiences. It is favorable for commercial or political enterprises and may involve much competition. N as a health factor can cause irritability because of emotional upsets brought on by thoughts of marriage. If N occurs with a G, marriage has a very good outcome. If N and T are together, marriage prospects and harmony after marriage are certain. W, TO EXPRESS ITSELF, must follow the divine law of love. You have great persistence and hate to give up. You are a good mixer, charming, magnetic and intuitive. If negative, you can be selfish, greedy and too daring. W at a peak cycle signifies an alternation between the heights and the depths. This is a time for self-evaluation and for finding your potential. This cycle can bring marriage. W as a health factor can bring headaches due to the nervous and impulsive vibration of the letter. The 6’s. F HAS THE STRONG characteristics of Venus. You are kind, home loving, hospitable and friendly. Since you take responsibility well, you are a good organizer of social affairs. Compassion for others is an outstanding trait. If F is expressed negatively, you are sad. F at a peak cycle centers your attention on family matters and duties connected with loved ones, whether married or not. It is time to learn the meaning of willing service, because the alternatives may be disappointing. Wise choices are necessary. F as a health factor indicates trouble, including nervous conditions of the heart. If F is with an N, illness is possible. If F is with U or O, watch your financial matters, or losses may occur. O IS PATIENT, persevering and strong willed. You are a good student, absorbing knowledge easily and retaining it well. Jealousy can cause upsets in marriage relationships and home conditions; therefore you must learn emotional control. O stands for virtue or vice; there is no middle path. You are either a saint or a sinner. O at peak cycle presents an opportunity for progress by allowing a release from present limitations. A radical change in viewpoint may occur, and fears can be erased. If O is with a G, there is gain. If O is with a U, losses are possible, and if O is with a D, there will be expenses incurred through necessary travel, plus the possibility of changes in the home. O as a health factor can cause worry and depression if you are responding to its negative side. Slowing down can prevent heart irregularities and despondencies. O is compatible with religious matters; therefore, prayer can help and inspire. X IS A DUAL LETTER - the upper half is open to receive the better things in life, the lower half is open to overindulgence, especially of the sexual nature. If positive, you can advance mentally and spiritually. If negative, you are angry, unfaithful and sensuous. X at a peak cycle flashes a danger signal at the crossroads, a warning of deceit. If the positive side is expressed, financial matters will be beneficial, and good relations with people of influence will be established. X as a health factor indicates a danger of falls and or injury to the back. It is better not to ride a horse during this period, or to travel to high places. Mountain climbing should be postponed. The 7’s. G IS RELIGIOUS and mystically inclined with a deep understanding. You are inventive, intuitive and extremely methodical. Since your will is so strong, you are hard to convince. You also dislike advice. G at a peak cycle is a time of expansion, productivity and material success. It is favorable for the arts, music, drama or literature. G as a health factor is always good. If illness occurs, there is help toward recovery. G occurring with a D or an F indicates financial gain. P CONFERS POWER of expression, either in speaking or writing. You are clever, clear-sighted and intellectual. You can be dominating and rather impatient if restricted. If negative, you will be selfish and unsympathetic. P at a peak cycle presents bright prospects for the future. Because of your creative talents, good fortune is in store. Plan wisely and aim toward the future during this cycle. P as a health factor indicates that you should not overwork while under this letter. If P is with a G, health is good; if with a T or B, nervous conditions may arise. Y NEEDS FREEDOM; physical, mental and spiritual. You hate bondage in any form. You have a love of beauty and philosophy, and you desire achievement. Pythagoras referred to the letter Y as the two roads which require that choices be made. Y at a peak cycle brings sudden change, since it is a branching cycle quick decisions are necessary. Decide firmly and refuse to look back or regret the past. Make the best of things after the choice is made. Y as a health factor gives a feeling of well being and protection while on water. The 8’s. H MUST CREATE and fulfill. You attract success and money, but will either be very wealthy or very poor because your good judgment fails at times. You are a lover of nature and do not need others for your happiness. H is a power letter, sufficient unto itself. If negative, you are selfish. H at a peak cycle acts as a gate to the path of life, a gate which can be either a barrier or an opening. This is a time when the cosmic laws are working toward completion of karma. There is concern with financial or legal affairs and with the physical and material side of life. H as a health factor can bring personal strain. If H is with an N, nervous strain and even illness are possible. Q HAS MORE ORIGINALITY than H and more intensity of feeling. You are a leader. You have a fine mind, and you like to talk. A relationship with unknown forces gives you secret strength and an air of mystery. You are deep. Q at a peak cycle grants great mental vitality, intuitive power and creative attainment. There is opportunity for outstanding leadership and distinction in your career. This is a good time for public activity and travel. Encourage others unselfishly. Q as a health factor indicates a period of strong health. Z HOLDS ALL THE QUALITIES of H and Q but it is more spiritual. You have aspiration and inspiration, hope and guidance. Since you are intuitive and perceptive, you understand human nature. You have the power to achieve. Diplomacy and discretion make you a good mediator. Z at a peak cycle runs a zig-zag course in a cycle of hidden progress. Though there are setbacks, you are advancing to a higher level. In this period, learn patience and its rewards. Z as a health factor gives control over illness. There may be a need to control others or to carry out secret missions in healing. The 9’s. I IS A LAW unto itself. Your tendency is to finish whatever you start. You can be very obstinate if limited, and you chafe under dictatorship. Since I is an artistic vowel, you like to use the pen or the needle (writing, fashion design etc.). You make a good lecturer but can also do clerical work. You can become loving, compassionate, intuitive and humanitarian. Runs of luck, either good or bad, follow you. If negative, you have a nervous, quick temper. I at a peak cycle creates an interlude of ups and downs. By standing firm on your convictions, great inspiration results. Wavering will bring fluctuations in fortune, resulting in new beginnings. This is a period when personal feelings are paramount; sensitivity, sympathy and intuition are high. I as a health factor brings nervousness, probably caused by over-exertion. Intense emotions can cause exhaustion. R HOLDS ALL THE POSSIBILITIES of the I, except that it represents the brighter side of the 9’s. You are tolerant and like to help humanity. You are very active. If negative, you may have to guard against losses. If R is followed by an I, you may be touchy and irritable. R at a peak cycle provides an opening for new plans and ideas, calling for a new occupation in life. Resolve to attain status through this period. Since the pace is fast, there is a need to slow down somewhat. R as a health factor is called the growler letter, indicating undercurrent rumblings, but not very harmful unless two R’s are stimulated into action at the same time. If negatively expressed, accidents may occur through rashness or carelessness, which can bring on sickness. Your Career. Choosing a career is an important step in your life. If you have more than one talent, you may have difficulty deciding what career course to follow. This is when a study of your numbers and their particular vibrations can help. Your numbers indicate your abilities; use them to plan your future. Your career number is your Life Lesson Number. To find it, add the numbers in your birthdate. Always add the whole number of the month and day, without breaking them down to a single digit. Add the year number through once and use the total in your computation. For example, 1945 is 1 + 9 + 4 + 5, which equals 19. Use 19 for the year 1945. November 12, 1940 is a career number 1. 11 + 12 + 14 equals 37 or 1. Or put another way: 1 + 9 + 4 + 0 is 14, or 1. If your birthdate totals a master number, do not reduce it. Many times the same vocation is found under different numbers. In those cases, look at the other careers in that career number to help you determine how you would use that particular vocation. For example, lawyer appears under numbers 2, 3, 6, 7, 8 and 9. In number 3 it would be expressed as a court lawyer, in number 7 as a divorce lawyer, in number 8 as a corporate lawyer, patent attorney or financial advisor, and so on. Now read the descriptions below to find out your compatible careers. 1 AS A CAREER NUMBER: Inventor, designer, aviator, leader of a group, department or business organization. Ambassador, director, program planner, store owner, officer in the military. Producer of motion pictures, television or theater productions. Lecturer, promoter, sales manager, engineer, executive, explorer. Creative work of all kinds. 2 AS A CAREER NUMBER: Diplomat, agent, caterer, clerk, lawyer, insurance adjuster or any position that demands arbitration. Architect, bookkeeper, bill collector, custodian, legislator, librarian, minister, foreign minister, politician, teacher. 3 AS A CAREER NUMBER: Artist, musician, nurse, dietician, physician. Writer, entertainer, cosmetician, salesperson of cosmetics or art supplies. An artisan in any line. Lawyer, judge, engineer, pastor, priest, playground director, athletic coach, scout director, vocational school teacher, philosopher. A 3 should avoid positions of close confinement or long hours, as self-expression is necessary for happiness and best work. 4 AS A CAREER NUMBER: All building trades, numerologist, farmer, miner, industrialist, mason, draft person, mechanic, accountant, undertaker, efficiency expert, executive, professional boxer, engineer, mechanic, chemist, laboratory technician. 5 AS A CAREER NUMBER: Salesperson, advertising executive, investigator or detective, writer, teacher, lecturer, copy reader, news columnist, editor, any career in communications. Graphologist, proofreader, publisher, playwright, TV or radio operator, actor, secretary, consultant, psychology or language teacher, interpreter, import-export dealer. 6 AS A CAREER NUMBER: Actor, host or hostess, homemaker, teacher, writer, nurse, doctor. Interior decorator, artist, florist, singer, voice teacher, tutor. Beautician, dressmaker or designer, fashion expert, musician, perfumer, incense chemist, herbalist. Any branch of theater work. Marriage counselor, divorce attorney. The 6 needs to be in service to others in some way. 7 AS A CAREER NUMBER: Archeologist, astrologer, engineer, healer, preacher, author, dentist, farmer, lawyer, photographer, psychic investigator, any sort of research work. Could do library work as cataloger or indexer. A 7 dislikes manual labor and does best in an atmosphere of refinement and culture. 8 AS A CAREER NUMBER: Banker, financier, engineer, undertaker, chemist, carpenter, crime investigator, druggist, exterminator, firearms or dynamite expert. Lawyer, organizer, supervisor, philanthropist, manufacturer, architect, broker. 9 AS A CAREER NUMBER: Researcher, electrician, explorer, magician, narcotics agent, scientist, doctor, teacher, preacher, lecturer, surgeon, diplomat. Iron worker, artist, musician, lawyer, spiritual healer, horticulturist, landscape gardener. 11 AS A CAREER NUMBER: Inspirational writer, teacher, lecturer, promoter, sales manager, leader in public affairs. Professional in metaphysical work, astrologer, astronomer, numerologist. Electrician, space age electronics expert, astronaut. 22 AS A CAREER NUMBER: Executive, diplomat, ambassador, government agent, adjuster, mediator, humanitarian, librarian, school superintendent. A 22 belongs in public service or in an advisory capacity in some way. 33 AS A CAREER NUMBER: Professor of Bible interpretation, public servant. A 33 birthdate is usually destined for sacrificial service in some capacity. It could be a life of nurturing or of giving up one’s own career in order to serve a parent, a community or the world. 44 AS A CAREER NUMBER: Farmer, builder, doctor, nurse, dietician, soldier, politician, banker, businessman, social worker. A 44 must contribute to the world in a substantial, materialistic way. Number Compatibility. Many people like to determine their compatibility with someone else. We can do this by comparing Life Lesson Numbers. This is the number that has the heaviest influence on our lives. Here we will use only the single digit of the Life Lesson Number. If you have a master number, reduce it to a single digit and work with that single number. For those who do not wish to reveal their birthdate, simply have them figure their own Life Lesson Number and give only the number to you. The following list offers all possible Life Lesson Number combinations. Can a 3 be compatible with a 5? Let’s find out. 1 WITH A 1: Since leadership is the keyword for both of you, you would be a dynamic combination. You would both want the same thing at the same time and would join ranks in competition with other forces. You might have to work at harmonizing your personalities since you both tend to be aggressive. This is a combination that requires cooperation, and the necessary endurance to see a project through to its conclusion. 1 WITH A 2: The 1 person has the plans, initiative and leadership qualities, whereas the 2 person has the tact and the co-operative and supportive talents to carry out the plans and ideas initiated by the 1. The 1 person is innovative and the 2 person is supportive, and a perfect agent or promoter for those innovations. As partners, mates or co-workers, you will be winners because each has what the other lacks. 1 WITH A 3: By combining the originality and leadership abilities of the 1 person with the 3 person’s charm, magnetism and know-how in expanding an idea and making it into a real success, this combination can bring honor and fame as well as happiness. The only real danger is that the 1 person can be impulsive, and the 3 person can scatter his or her energies, but by concentrating their combined talents, almost anything can be accomplished. 1 WITH A 4: This combination gives a firm foundation for business success. The 1 person acts as the decision maker, plus supplying creative, inventive and original talents. However, the 1 person needs the practicality, thoroughness and steadying support of the 4 person as a restraint on impulsiveness. The 1 person can irritate the 4 with impulsiveness, whereas the 4 person can irritate the 1 with extreme caution. But, all in all, this is a good combination. 1 WITH A 5: Both of you are active, changeable and original, with a dash of versatility. The two of you can have the world by the tail, and can learn and earn a lot together. The 5 person can sell the ideas of the 1 person. Educational projects would be ideal for you as a team, but let the 5 person take care of the publicity. 1 WITH A 6: The number 6 person loves art, socializing, beauty and luxury, and these worlds can be opened by the 1 person who provides the sparkle, drive and leadership for fruitful outcomes. There can be friction if the 1 person insists on his or her own way, so a co-operative effort in a cultural field such as interior decorating, landscape gardening, gourmet cooking or the like could be rewarding for this team. 1 WITH A 7: A spiritual or metaphysical relationship could work well here. The 1 person must not be too demanding or hasty, because the 7 person needs time for privacy, analysis and thought. Where the 1 person is the extrovert, the 7 person is the introvert, and each should be aware of the other’s need for independence. The 7 person should communicate ideas and follow the leadership of the 1 person, acting as a brake for the impulsiveness of the 1 person. This can be a powerful combination. 1 WITH AN 8: You are both aggressive, used to making your own decisions, so it’s either cooperate willingly or become rivals and antagonists. If you calm down as a unit and use your combined powers wisely and with careful analysis, there is great power and courage in the face of difficulties. Pool your energies and talents and be winners together, otherwise you may destroy each other. This is a strong business combination. 1 WITH A 9: The 9 person’s depth of vision and breadth of understanding combined with the originality and dash of the 1 person can create a combination of inventive genius. The 1 person is the pusher in this partnership, supplying the diverse ideas which fall upon seasoned and wise ears. Together the courage and wisdom of this combination make it one that will go far towards success. 2 WITH A 2: Perfect equilibrium and equal sharing are the watchwords here. You both like to build experiences, and are able to give and receive understanding. Learn to work with, rather than for, the other, and you will both share in the material benefits of your partnership. You are both extremely aware of the other person’s point of view, and must not become so bogged down that you cannot effectively make decisions and take action. 2 WITH A 3: This is a popularity combination. While the 2 person knows how to win friends and contracts and keep things running harmoniously, the 3 person can expand upon friendships and inject life and spontaneity into them. The 3 person’s creative talents can be effectively managed and balanced by the 2 person’s ability to stay in the background and take care of the practical aspects of keeping things on the right track. 2 WITH A 4: There is no competition or friction in this combination of numbers. In fact, you each bring out the best side of the other. There is great harmony and understanding in whatever endeavors you undertake. The 2 person acts as a harmonizer and coordinator, and the 4 person plans the practical basis for solid foundations. You would both do well in home building, real estate, farming and other related professions. 2 WITH A 5: This partnership will produce an “all or nothing” experience. The 2 person would be better off to take second place, waiting until his or her strength is needed. The 5 person can talk and plan for both, and friction could occur if the 2 person pours cold water on the 5’s wit and brilliance. If he or she can hold the 5’s attention and interest, the 2 person can sustain the 5’s ideas and help bring them into fruition. 2 WITH A 6: This can be an extremely successful combination of numbers. The tact and magnetism of the 2 person combined with the love of beauty and the appreciation of home and family of the 6 person can attract the confidence of others who see these two people as sensitive, caring, artistic and co-operative. The public will respond to your combined charms. You would do well in charity work, financial drives or any organizational work to do with homes, children or domestic affairs. 2 WITH A 7: This is an extremely harmonious combination and creates no friction; rather the need is to guard against too much serenity. There is