lifetime, because you are always seeking new experiences and initiating new schemes. If you are a negative 1, you have an overpowering ego, which makes you arrogant, selfish and uncaring. You have no feeling for others and no regard for another person’s point of view. Your stubbornness in pursuing your own path in the face of contrary evidence sets up a series of events that will lead to failure and loneliness. If you are a positive 1, and intellectually developed, you are quite original. Your keen, penetrating mind seeks many lines of expression, and your talents can manifest if you work as an inventor, designer or leader in any creative field. Your inventiveness allows you to solve problems creatively and constructively. This process will make you a skillful individual who expresses definite views positively. You are the pioneer setting out into the wilderness to carve a new life for yourself. 1 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: New beginnings, decisions, independence. The period you are now entering is a time to begin again, to make a new start. You have the ability to separate yourself from your environment and choose the path you want to take. You may be required to stand alone, to think for yourself and to learn independence. The vibrations of 1 reveal the powers within, and now you must take the reins and determine your future course. If you have depended upon others in the past, you will realize that you can no longer do so. You should set long-range goals and begin taking steps to attain them. Later, when you look back, you will realize that the events of this period were the foundation stones of your new life. Set out to develop your talents and skills. Promote your ideas, believe in yourself and don’t take “no” for an answer. Your most important experiences now will be those that you initiate; therefore, you must be decisive and firm. Great strength and self-control are required. If you fix your attention on a goal, you will attain it, because your consciousness has become an open channel of communication between your subconscious and your super-conscious. The secret is concentration. Miracles can be performed now, because you have control over all material affairs. Channel your thoughts into fertile areas where your mind’s energies can set up patterns that can be transmitted to subliminal levels. The resulting subconscious reactions will bring about the desired results. Under a 1, you should be keenly aware that your results will be qualified by your real desires. A negative use of number 1 energies can set you on a headstrong course where you insist on having your own way, regardless of the consequences. Give your individuality free rein, but guide it wisely. Under this influence, don’t be ruled by impulsiveness. Make your own plans because equal partnerships should be avoided now. Be selective in choosing friends and avoid superficial relationships. You may meet one new person who will figure importantly in your future. Experiment with the new and untried. Remain independent and decisive, and above all, have the courage to act on your dreams. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 1. The Magician. The Magician represents the conscious mind, which by concentration and single-minded attention to a specific idea or goal can draw upon the forces from above. In this way the idea or goal will take form and become a reality in the material world. By his posture, the central figure clearly indicates that he is merely a channel through which the life force flows. The identical ends of his wand graphically represent the axiom as above, so below. The horizontal figure 8 symbolizes the Holy Spirit, dominion, strength and infinity. Since a horizontal line is the ancient symbol for matter, this glyph represents the conscious mind’s control over earthly things when that mind directs the life energy through fixed attention upon a specific goal. The Magician’s undergarment, symbolizing the light of perfect wisdom, is encircled by the serpent of eternity biting its own tail. The red outer garment of passion and desire, which has no binding, may be slipped on and off at will; thus the conscious mind has perfect control. The garden is the subconscious mind cultivated by attention from the conscious mind. Red roses represent desires, while lilies represent purified thought untinged by desire. Every moment of our waking consciousness is motivated and conditioned by some kind of desire, which must be elevated to a higher plane. The Magician has at his disposal all the elements and their human counterparts: the cup, indicating water and the imagination; the sword, indicating air and the intellect; the pentacle, earth and the body; and the wand, fire and will. These 4 objects represent the letters IHVH, which is the Hebrew word for God, and the letters INRI (Iesus Nazarenus Rex Iudaeorum) which appear on the Christian cross. At this point, the God energy may be translated into the world of matter to bring about perfect manifestation and harmony. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Mars (and Mercury). The planet Mercury is assigned to the Magician, and Mars is assigned to the number 1. These two energies must be blended in order for the Magician to complete his task. Mars, the red planet, supplies the fiery energy and the desire to create. Mercury is the mind, the channel through which the desire passes and the tool with which the concentration is enacted. Without the drive to accomplish, the mind is idle and useless; it needs the demanding, propelling force of Mars to spur it on to greater achievements. When Mercury and Mars act in unison, the number 1 individual draws upon an endless source of creativity and courage. He has the vision to see what can be done, and the strength and fortitude to do it. 2 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: The number 2 suggests more than one, and you, as a 2, are acutely conscious of others as opposed to yourself. Since you are socially aware of people, you tend to gather ideas and experience through others, so you would be a good diplomat, go-between, mediator or peacemaker. Your best service is through cooperation, for your mild and gentle nature is appreciated and welcomed by all sides. You are not a forceful individual and you often prefer to stay quietly in the background. Because you are extremely aware of pairs of opposites, you find choices difficult. By remaining unobtrusive and discreet, you sometimes avoid making decisions. This quality could be a liability, but you can make it an asset by becoming an arbitrator. Your ability to see both sides of a situation, coupled with your sincerity, is a winning combination. The number 2 also implies reflection and symmetry. Your imaginative powers are increased because you can see hidden aspects of beauty in life. Your ability to detach yourself and see separateness gives your creative and inventive potentials room to grow. When we look out into the world, we see what is in front and to the sides; we cannot see behind us without turning around. However, you seem to look into reality as in a mirror, seeing every detail, even those behind you which can be seen only with the mirror. You possess the all-seeing eye. If you are a negative 2, you lack self-confidence, and are therefore indecisive and afraid to make decisions. You can be deceitful or two-faced. You are oversensitive and easily depressed if your surroundings are unhappy. If you are a positive 2, you can be of great service to others because of your ability to settle situations amicably, and you may well become the power behind the throne. 2 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Gestation, cooperation, diplomacy, self-knowledge. You are in a gestation period in which you must not assert yourself but rather must await results. It is time to collect and assimilate the experiences of the past, giving them time to grow slowly. This is a secretive period in which your affairs, situations and relationships are operating under an element of the unknown. You may not be aware of all the circumstances surrounding a particular situation, which may be in a fluctuating state. Therefore, you must maintain balance and equilibrium. Remain poised. There may be meetings, conversation and comings and goings. You should be careful of what you say about your hopes and ambitions, for your words could be misconstrued by others, either unconsciously or deliberately. Use diplomacy in all your dealings and be cautious about whom you talk with and whom you put your confidence in. Carelessness and tactlessness can cause problems in relationships, which could result in angry confrontations and deceptive acts. Be patient, considerate, tactful and receptive to other people’s ideas. Practice conciliation but not at the expense of your integrity. This is a passive, receptive time in which to reflect and listen to the voice of your subconscious mind, which collects and files every piece of information it encounters. The subconscious is now potentially producing seeds that will cause either strife, dissension, disagreements and partings, or peace, cooperation, beauty and coming together. If you exercise the positive side, you will have warm ties with other people. You can be a good mediator, go-between or agent for peace. This is a good vibration for love affairs, but be careful because you are emotionally vulnerable. Under a 2, love affairs can come and go, so maintain that balance. The future may seem unclear during this period, because hidden energies are working that will surface later. Since choices are difficult under a 2, it is wiser to postpone important moves until your mind is more decisive. This is not a particularly good time for business ventures, again because of your indecisiveness. Memories are a prime motivation for your actions now. Don’t become trapped in unhappy memories or unconscious past conditionings. Instead use the stored wisdom from your past experiences to resolve snags in a partnership, mediation or cooperative effort. We communicate with others through the subconscious. Memories stored in that subconscious determine our response to conditions, situations and people. Examine your reactions to others now, for this period tests your ability to coexist. Telepathic communication may be intense, as you have a subconscious knowledge of the real meaning behind events that are mysterious to your conscious mind. Therefore, you must tune in to what is formulating in your mind during this time, otherwise, you will remain in the dark. Number 2 is a two-way street, with ideas flowing between the inner self and the outer self. A negative use of 2 makes you act petty about trivial matters. You react emotionally to confrontations, withdrawing rather than trying to settle problems peaceably. Your emotions undermine your self-confidence and upset your equilibrium. This is a perfect time for creative people such as artists, composers, inventors and mystics to expand their consciousness through various techniques, because 2 contains latent creative powers. It is a waiting period in which the seeds of creativity are planted in the subconscious to begin the process of growth and expansion. This is also a period of wisdom in which you can see the true I AM of self by reflecting on your inner being. You should remain passive and receptive to the present active creative forces, without vacillating or being oversensitive or withdrawn. Calm, silent contemplation of the creative potential within will help you produce exquisitely beautiful art forms, innovative ideas and unique solutions to everyday problems. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 2 The High Priestess. The High Priestess symbolizes the subconscious mind, the receptive, reproductive and form building power within the human organism. The curtain behind the figure connects the two pillars of light and darkness. As the balancing power between pairs of opposites, she has no preference for either and merely awaits the concentrated effort of the conscious mind. The cup-shaped crescent Moon depicts the receptiveness and retentiveness of the subconscious mind. All memory, universal and personal, is recorded on the High Priestess’s scroll, which is partially hidden because all is not yet known; God has more to reveal. The cubic stone of truth upon which she sits represents the principles of order on which the subconscious must function for perfect fulfillment. The white cross represents the proper use of the four implements on the Magician’s table. The conscious mind formulates ideas which the subconscious accepts as suggestions and then sets about to make them realities in an orderly, progressive fashion. The High Priestess is the connecting link to the subconscious through which we must pass in order to use our conscious potential, thus calling into play the powers of the Magician, the conscious mind. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Vulcan (and the Moon). The High Priestess, key 2 of Tarot, (ruled by the Moon), and number 2, (ruled by Vulcan), join forces in bringing about gestation. (Vulcan is the blacksmith of the gods, the keeper of the flame and fireside. Many astrologers feel that the planet Vulcan is the rightful ruler of Virgo.) After an idea has been sown by the number 1 vibration, it must find a warm dark place where it can be properly nurtured, away from the light and clamor of the outer world. The idea seeks refuge in the depths of the Moon-ruled subconscious, where it waits to be fed by the imagination. Like Vulcan, this formation process is not seen, but it continues, fed by the fire of determination. Vulcan, the mythological tender of fire, aids the nurturing and protecting influences by making sure that the fire or desire to bring forth this seed does not flicker and die. A number 2 individual has a quiet receptive personality, in which the seeds of cooperation, patience and prudence are nurtured. These seeds will eventually manifest in useful products and objects of beauty that will benefit the whole world. 3 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: 3 is the number of the performing arts, and you are a performer. You love life, the joy of social contacts, entertainment and new experiences. Your bright active nature radiates like the Sun to warm the lives of others, and your ease with people draws them to you like a magnet. You will always have many admirers. You are an extremely expressive person, and you should develop your skill with words and cultivate the art of conversation. You can influence others through your ability to communicate about life in a grandiose fashion. Develop and put to work your talents for entertaining and communicating. You could do well as a teacher, artist, lawyer, judge, writer, nurse, pastor or priest. Travel will probably be an important part of your life, because you need to become involved in many experiences and investigate new opportunities. Your varied interests make your thinking broad and all-encompassing. You like to be on stage, to entertain and live the good life. Recognition is important to you, for you need to know you are appreciated. You like to wear nice clothes, and are or should be aware of your appearance, because performing depends on how you look and project yourself. A negative 3 does everything in a big way: eating, drinking, loving and living. You can be too self-indulgent, and extravagance could be your downfall. You tend to overact and exaggerate situations, turning mole-hill problems into mountains. Friendships will then be superficial. You may try to avoid responsibility and live just for the moment. Too much talk may make you a gossip. As a 3, you should learn not to spread yourself too thin, which is an easy trap to fall into, with your many talents and interests. You should master at least one talent. As a positive 3, you will be very lucky in speculative matters, investing, gambling and taking chances in general. You will have many lucky opportunities through your friends, who are most eager to assist you in every way. Your luck is derived from your positive, outgoing attitude, which induces people to want to help you. You should avoid occupations that keep you confined in close quarters or demand long hours of isolation, because you need to move around and express yourself in order to do your best work and be happy. 3 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Growth, travel, entertainment, self-expression. This is usually a happy time, during which previous difficulties are overcome and resolved. You are bursting with the joy of living; and your optimistic outlook makes you want to express yourself socially and to indulge your desires. Many events that occur now will add to your enthusiasm. You will definitely acquire money during this cycle. You may receive a raise at work, a long-lost relative might leave you an inheritance, or you might win a sweepstakes. Luck seems to be on your side, but remember that luck is merely the outward manifestation of your present positive attitude. You are creating your own luck. There is growth and expansion in all areas of your life at this time. For some, this may mean marriage or the birth of children. For others, birth will occur in the creative arts or in mind expansion. Recognition of your talents in writing, painting, sculpting or acting is possible, so now is the time to write the article, paint the picture or present the project you’ve been thinking about for so long. Publication and recognition from authorities come under a 3. Study a foreign language, take elocution lessons or any other available means to develop your expressive capabilities. Spend time and money on your personal appearance, because how others see you is extremely important now. You might attend a weight-reducing course or yoga class to reshape and firm your body. Pay particular attention to the way you dress, and go through your wardrobe, replacing worn and outdated clothes. You will probably find yourself on a buying spree. Business mixes well with pleasure now, so involve yourself in the social aspects of living. The people you meet will be impressed with your manner and articulateness, and some of them will be in a position to aid your career. Give parties, join groups, attend seminars and generally become involved in meeting and being with other people. Don’t make any commitments now that will bind and encumber you in any way. You need freedom and time to cultivate personal self-expression. If you’ve always wanted to travel, this may be your opportunity. Long distance travel comes under a 3, so you may have the chance to expand through contact with other cultures or ways of life. You will be center-stage now, so enjoy it, bask in the warmth of others’ attention and radiate the joy you feel to enhance the lives of those you touch. Listen to your dreams, for they can bring precognitive messages and alert you to potential future opportunities. This is a productive period in all areas of your life. The negative aspects of a 3 lead to scattering your energies and over-indulging in all phases of living. Talking too much can lead to gossip and deceit. Extravagance leads to dissipation. Taking unnecessary risks leads to losses. Jealousy produces loneliness. Overeating, excess drinking and indiscriminate drug consumption can have disastrous results. Be aware that exhaustion of the valuable resources of this period causes dissipation and turns potentially fertile soil to wasteland. There is an ancient saying: “Beware of your wishes, for you will surely get them.” If you desire anything strongly enough, that desire will surely come to pass. And once it is a reality, you may decide you really didn’t want it after all. During this time, your desires can become a reality, so begin now to screen your wishes. Be certain that what you desire is right and good for you and for all others concerned, and then enjoy this happy and productive period. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 3. The Empress. The Empress is also an aspect of the subconscious mind. While the High Priestess, number 2, is memory, in number 3 we find the subconscious response to that memory which produces growth through the imagination. In contrast to the virginal High Priestess, the Empress appears pregnant, as does the landscape around her. The Empress produces. She is the great mother surrounded by love, beauty and growth. The conscious mind, key 1, cannot produce; the subconscious mind, key 2, cannot reason; it takes a combination of 1 and 2 to produce manifestation, or key 3. The trees, dress and wheat symbolize the ripening that takes place in the subconscious mind. The stream is the life stream, the stream of consciousness. Falling into the pool, it represents the union of the sexes or the union of the conscious and subconscious minds. Her yellow hair, symbolizing the super-conscious mind, is tied by green leaves, or bound sunlight, as the leaves have captured the sun’s rays. The twelve stars on her crown are the twelve zodiacal signs or the twelve months, thus representing time itself. In the same vein, it takes time to bring our desires into manifestation. Her scepter represents her dominion over the world of creation through love, the Venus glyph. She is the epitome of creation and abundance, reminding us of the biblical passage, “And there appeared a great wonder in the heavens; a woman clothed with the Sun, and the Moon under feet, and upon her head a crown of twelve stars. And she being with child cried, travailing in birth...” (Revelations 12 verses 1 and 2). Older versions of the Empress showed her with the crescent Moon beneath her feet. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Jupiter (and Venus). From the foregoing delineations of number 3 (Jupiter) and key 3 (the Empress, Venus), you can see how the attributes of Venus and Jupiter work in conjunction to bring about productivity. Venus seeks to bring harmony and beauty into whatever environment she appears. Her keen sense of justice manifests through a fine symmetry, and her loving nature seeks to make others as well as herself comfortable. When Venus unites with Jupiter, who desires to expand services for humanity through orderly growth, an extremely productive and fertile situation results. This productivity is distinctly recognizable in number 3 individuals. They are extremely sociable and indulge not only themselves but also their family and friends. They work to bring about social harmony by using their very expressive and creative talents in such fields as acting, social work, counseling and the law. Their honesty, generosity and affability make them extremely popular with almost everyone. 4 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: Symbolically, the number 4 and the four-sided square are synonymous. As a child, you spent time in a square crib and playpen. As you grew older, you drew pictures of a square house in which you and your family lived. You played with square blocks and most likely romped in a square yard. Although the perimeters of your world grew as you matured, still the boundaries defined the extent to which you could expand. Because these boundaries protected you from harm, the square became imbedded in your subconscious as a symbol of security and structure, a comfortable, productive and organized system of existence. The earth was formed on the fourth day of Creation; therefore, symbolically, all earthly things come under a 4. As the recipient of this vibration, you are a very creative builder, an individual who puts form and structure into life. You build tangible objects because you need to see visible results from your efforts. Carpenters, masons, draftsmen and all the building trades come under a 4. You are a good worker. An employer can rely upon your stability, steadiness, honesty and sense of responsibility. You are the salt of the earth type who realizes the importance of a sound foundation upon which to build the future. By upholding the traditions of the past you reinforce your sense of security in the present and the future. Your naturally cautious, industrious nature makes you a saver. You are a patient planner, and you insist that your finances be organized. Because of this predilection toward thrift, practicality and wise handling of finances, you would be a good banker or financier. Law, order and regulation are keywords for a 4. You have an inborn respect for supervision and control. Many 4’s work in government or law, the foundations of society. Such occupations require in-sight and the ability to examine situations and make judgments based upon reason, all of which you, as a 4, are extremely capable of doing. Because a 4’s insight is based on sound reasoning, this number produces the inventor who creates practical objects for the home or business. This ability also manifests itself in farming, mining, geology and gardening; those occupations which produce valuable products from the earth. A negative 4 can be a workaholic whose stem and sterile outlook makes life a plodding drudgery. You can be stingy, unfriendly and alone, boxed in by secure walls of your own making, which protect you from the outside world, but also prevent you from enjoying relationships with others. This person feels limited and restrained because of a fearful need for security. As a positive 4, you have the ability to build a useful world through sound reasoning, where your hard work and patient perseverance will benefit others in a tangible way. 4 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Work, finances, building, practicality. 4 brings the need to define and order things. At this time you must measure, classify, record, regulate and compose yourself as well as your affairs and your environment. You must attend to everyday, earthly matters and handle them through your own efforts and actions. You will gain materially now through honest toil, as this is a productive period in which the creative drive can be controlled and directed. For males, this time can indicate virility and fatherhood. Controlling your daily activities will allow you to reap material rewards. Money and finances are very much a part of this cycle, so you should be economical and practical. Set up a budget and pay debts on all levels: materially, physically, mentally and spiritually. This is the ideal time to save for that special vacation or the home you’ve always wanted. Surveying land, planning and building a new home, or refurbishing or reconstructing an existing one are very likely pursuits under a 4. There may be obstacles that must be solved with patience and determination, but if you have the courage to struggle through all opposition, you can make great strides. During this period reason reigns. The number 4 is symbolic of a square window, through which we see; therefore, you must exercise vision, insight and analysis. Because you are able to see into the heart of any situation, you may be called upon to use your reason and judgment, perhaps in the judicial system as a juror or a courtroom witness. Since the judicial system is the foundation upon which a just society is built, under this vibration you may have to uphold the traditions that regulate and insure the continuity of that system. Previously hidden aspects of the past may be revealed during this period, which allow you to correct faulty judgments from an earlier time; this is because the 4 implies the door of opportunity through which you can pass into a new life. Since 4 rules the physical aspects of living, sensual pleasures are available to you now. You can have a physically rewarding relationship with a member of the opposite sex. However, the crux of this vibration is responsibility, work and accomplishment. It is a time to make solid foundations - financial, physical or mental - for your life. Business and personal relationships can grow, and lasting ties of friendship may be developed now. Financially, you will earn in direct proportion to your output. Exercise and take care of your body, your physical home. When 4 is centered on the material plane, its energies manifest as creative abilities. When these energies are spiritually centered, new psychic and spiritual realms can be contacted. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 4. The Emperor. This card, ruling our conscious existence, represents reason, which is a function of the conscious mind. The Emperor therefore rules over and sets in order the reasoning, conscious elements of the material world. He supervises and controls through his ability to discern the truth in any given situation. It is his wisdom in handling affairs systematically that has placed him upon the throne. The Emperor is the Magician grown older and now in a position where the efforts of the 3 previous stages bring about concrete rewards in power and dominion. His helmet is red and gold, representing Mars and the Sun. The Sun is exalted in Aries, which rules this card, as shown by the rams’ heads adorning the throne. The Emperor’s thoughts have been channeled through personal effort (Mars) into productive and useful implementation, a process which has crowned him with authority (the Sun). He holds the world in his left hand and the Tau (T) cross in his right. This cross is the T-square used in mathematics, geometry, surveying and planning. He has attained his position through proper planning. His throne, simply carved of stone, is symbolic of the body, which needs long and arduous work before it is perfected. The Empress, 3, and the Emperor, 4, are intended to show that what you sow with your conscious mind (1) you expand through 2 and 3 and finally reap through 4. You are what you alone have made of yourself; you have the power and control. If you are dissatisfied, start with 1 and sow the proper seeds. Then follow the orderly progression through 2 and 3, and at 4, you will have what you want. This is the message of the first four cards of the Tarot. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Earth (and Aries). Earth, assigned to 4, and Aries, ruler of the Emperor, key 4, are the components of this vibration. 4 is a symbol of form, manifesting in the four-sided square, or the cube, a solidified square. As such, this number logically rules all things that have form, shape and substance. The earth and all that exists as part of it fall into this category. The abundance of the earth comes to certain individuals and not to others. By examining the astrological correspondences we can determine why this happens. Number 4 is the result of an orderly progression, just as earth-ruled Taureans are methodical types. If you make an incorrect assessment of a situation and proceed on that information, then the results will be unsatisfactory. Intelligent evaluation and proper harnessing of your personal energy are necessary for the creation of a successful conclusion. Aries, the point of beginning, is the place we must start if we expect good results. Aries has the initial thought to begin the process of manifestation and the courage to proceed. The earth vibration lends stability to the Aries desire, and the end product is a proper formation of the original thought. People with the number 4 will express these qualities, and astrologically their charts should support their 4 vibration tendencies with an emphasis on Aries and earth signs. 5 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: Freedom is an absolute necessity for you. You cannot be fenced in, and your restless, adventurous nature demands that you travel physically, mentally or spiritually. Because you are an explorer, researcher and investigator at heart, your travels expose you to varied experiences which you immediately digest, dissect and file for future reference. More than others, you learn from experience. You like to probe for information and experiment, and therefore you would be a good detective. Versatile, clever, adaptable and very creative, you can do anything you really want to do. You are extremely efficient, but you dislike monotony and cannot stand routine jobs. You perform well as long as the problem or focus of concentration holds your interest. As a constructive 5, you can go to the heights and the depths without harm. There is no limit to what you can do, if your actions are governed by reason rather than emotion. You have inexhaustible energy which, if not controlled, can turn into outbursts of temper. When you are tired, you rebound quickly, for nothing upsets you for long. Your quick mind and instant reactions cause you to make impulsive decisions on occasion, and you tend to be impatient with people who respond more slowly. You live on nervous energy. Hard manual labor is not your preference, so you drift into ways of making money through your mental agility. Gambling is one means of expression, and you can be very lucky if you speculate wisely but not impulsively. You could also be a mediator, peacemaker and go-between because your mind quickly performs the necessary mental gymnastics and reaches a conclusion. Because change is a natural part of your life, you must learn to make changes in a progressive way. Otherwise you can become unstable and go in too many directions at once, becoming the proverbial jack of all trades, master of none. You are anxious for mental growth, so you take up new studies whenever you get the urge. At these times you may become an avid student and develop intense concentration. There are two paths open to a 5; they are indulgence on the physical plane and progress on the mental plane. As a 5, you can become immersed in the purely physical side of life, saturating your senses with drugs, alcohol, sex, food and comforts. Because you communicate well and are very witty, talkative, enthusiastic and attractive to the opposite sex, you can easily fall into the sensual life, disregarding and wasting your many talents. Negative 5’s can be insincere, untruthful, selfish, irresponsible, extravagant and unpopular. Mental development is the key to the 5, and if you choose this path, the change and variety you surround yourself with will supply answers to all your many questions. Your vast knowledge will impress people, and you will eventually accomplish the supreme task of the 5, that of cleansing the sanctuary or regenerating the body by control of the senses. Because 5 is the number of the ability to develop the powers within, you can become a sage. 5 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Change, communication, sex, new interests, travel. If you are operating under a 5 at this time, you feel restless and excited. Change, adventure and the lure of new vistas beckon you. Travel is very much a part of this cycle, and if you do not travel physically, then you most certainly will mentally. It is time to break out of stagnant conditions and investigate new opportunities. You are attracted to home study courses, adult education, hobbies and new mental interests of all kinds, because this is a period of mental growth and development. You may be faced with situations that require decisions and choices, for 5 indicates two paths. This can be a turning point for you. Because this is a time of continual change in your life you must be flexible and learn to adapt, rather then make rigid plans, for they will probably be altered anyway. You must be free to meet the experience that this period has to offer because the pace is fast and events are sometimes unexpected. You will feel a nervous restless energy with this vibration, so try to avoid accidents caused by carelessness. Instead, channel your energies into constructive action through mental application. This is a perfect time to promote yourself or a product, because you are fluent, expressive and able to communicate easily with others. You will meet new people and make friends easily. Business can be combined with social activities with rewarding results. From experiences and contacts with others, you will extract knowledge which will be filed in your subconscious and will add greater dimension to your understanding. As this is a sensual period, you are sexually magnetic, and love affairs will be fast and intense. An old beau may show up for a last tango. There will be many opportunities for relationships with the opposite sex, one of which could develop into a marriage partnership. There can be many temptations, and you will have to use self-control and make the right decisions. With your strong desire for change, you may very well decide, or be forced, to change jobs or partners, to move, or to alter your lifestyle considerably. At times it may seem that others are forcing a move, but it is your own need for these changes that sets up the situations. Sometimes the need for change is acted out by others, but nevertheless it is caused by your own subconscious energies. Use self-control, channel your restless energies wisely and act decisively. This could very well be a turning point in your life. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 5. The Hierophant. The Hierophant represents our inner teacher, our inner hearing, our intuition. Sages have always said that release from all limitation comes to those who awaken their inner awareness. True inner hearing does not involve spirits, clairvoyance and visions from the astral plane. Rather, true intuition is based upon the number 4 and key 4, the Emperor. When the conscious mind gathers all the facts and feeds them into the subconscious mind, the subconscious acts upon this information and, in a flash of intuition, sends the correct analysis back to the conscious mind. This is true intuition, based upon reason. The Hierophant’s crown is triple: the row of five trefoils represents the five senses; the row of seven trefoils symbolizes the seven centers in the body and the seven original planets; the row of three trefoils stands for the three states of consciousness: the super-conscious, the conscious and the subconscious. His staff has the same symbolic meaning as the knob on the top: both indicate the Source, God. The ornaments attached to his crown fall just behind his ears to emphasize hearing. The crown and staff represent the four worlds: archetypal (knob), creative, formative and material. The pale gray background represents wisdom because gray is a mixture of equal parts of black and white. Thus gray stands for perfect balance which is the practical aspect of wisdom. At the Hierophant’s feet, the crossed keys symbolize the super-conscious, which is the key to heaven, and the subconscious, which is the key to earth (or hell, if one makes it so). The robes of the two kneeling priests represent desire (roses) and purified desire (lilies), both of which must be sublimated to the conscious mind. This card contains ten crosses representing the spiritual numbers 1 to 10, the ten aspects of the Tree of Life and the ten trees in The Empress’s garden. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Mercury (and Taurus). Mercury rules number 5, and Taurus has dominion over key 5, the Hierophant. These two seem unlikely partners; however, consider their attributes. Mercury, the messenger of the gods, represents movement, communication and the intellectual processes. Taurus, the first earth sign, is where we find individuals who act and react with slow deliberation, the epitome of the type who, in a leisurely manner, absorbs pleasure through the five senses. Only through calm deliberation (Mercury in Taurus), by taking in through the senses every piece of information presented in any given situation, can the intellectual process approach its fullest potential. The jigsaw puzzle of information is then handed in pieces to the subconscious, which carefully puts them together. Once completed, the picture is presented to the conscious mind in a flash of insight or intuition. With the help of Taurus, Mercury has gathered the information, communicated it to the subconscious for analysis, and then received the answer back in the conscious mind. Number 5 people are faced with many decisions that require intellectual discernment. They are definitely communicators and travelers, and are attracted to professions such as selling, advertising, promoting and public relations. 6 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are an artistic individual with a fine eye for beauty and symmetry. You find art and music relaxing, rewarding and necessary for your happiness. If you choose a professional career outside the home, the creative arts would be an appropriate field. Your innate analytical ability allows you to go right to the crux of any matter and solve problems easily and logically. Your keen perception and sense of justice would be assets for professional pursuits in law and counseling. Others sense your sagacity, honesty and fairness and seek you out to settle any differences they encounter. You are a responsible person who meets obligations and can be depended upon to follow through on anything you have promised. 6 is also the domestic vibration, indicating that you love your home and children. You may have married young in order to obtain the love you need, which a mate and children can provide. A woman with this number is likely to be a homemaker, very protective and fond of her husband and children. She prefers to be at home rather than to go out and battle the world for a living. One reason for her reluctance to go out into the world is the need for peace and harmony, which is important for all 6’s. A beautiful, artistically decorated home is very important for you. You enjoy decorating and making your surroundings attractive. You like comfort and peace and will not tolerate discord. Entertaining in your own home, if possible, is a joy for you, and you are a charming host or hostess. You really love your friends and are concerned and sympathetic to their needs. If they require help, you generously offer whatever you have. Because of your generosity, kindness, patience and tolerance, you have many friends. Consideration for others is basic to you personally, and you rejoice in other people’s happiness and rewards as your own. You dislike jealousy intensely and cannot understand it when other people react that way. In spite of your great desire for a peaceful existence, you will fight for your beliefs against all opposition. This determination can bring you success and fame in whatever profession you choose. A negative 6 can be very obstinate. You may become a slave to your loved ones, who use you as a doormat. You may bury yourself in your home, becoming a recluse. If you feel you have been denied the love you need so desperately, you will feel sorry for yourself, complain and whine, and indulge in self-pity. You may become discontented and jealous and play the martyr. As a positive 6, you can be a tremendous power for good, bringing joy, love, beauty and a sense of justice into others’ lives, thus establishing yourself as a snug harbor in the cold, destructive storms of life. 6 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Marriage, change in home, redecoration and remodeling, domestic and community responsibilities. The energies of this period center about your home and community. First look for the emphasis in the home, where changes are occurring. People may come into or leave your home, through marriage, birth, death, divorce and other occurrences, or you may change your residence. You may marry now, or develop strong ties of friendship with someone. You feel a greater sense of responsibility toward others which people will sense; and as a result, they turn to you for assistance. They will cry on your shoulder and perhaps ask for financial aid. Some relationships could become burdensome and older people may be a responsibility now. You must accept this situation cheerfully and above all maintain harmony; put aside your own needs for a time. However, don’t accept unnecessary burdens. This vibration stimulates your artistic sense, which you could put to constructive use by redecorating or remodeling your home. Your social awareness is emphasized also, so entertaining in your home should be high on your list of things to do. Putting your house in order also includes your physical house, your body. Have a checkup, then begin a course of exercise to tighten and firm sagging muscles and generally build a healthier body. Remember, don’t take on unnecessary responsibilities, for commitments that you accept now must be seen through to their conclusion. Instead, finish up the old projects that have been on your mind. Think carefully about how to overcome the obstacles that confront you. This can be a loving, rewarding and creative period, if you maintain balance and harmony. Make your home as attractive and warm as possible, and others will bask in its sunny radiance. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 6. The Lovers. The Lovers is an obvious reference to partnership and marriage, the union of opposite but complementary components. The keyword is discrimination. When we discriminate we set apart and separate in order to see the innate differences between two categories. In this manner, we can tell the true from the false. All creatures, including humans, have their own unique odor. This is especially important in the animal kingdom; mating, self-protection and preservation all depend upon a keen sense of smell. People discriminate through the sense of smell, which is therefore, an attribute of key 6. The two human figures represent opposing factors of the one Source, Adam and Eva (her name in the original manuscripts), male and female, positive and negative, and the conscious and subconscious minds. These two specialized manifestations of the one life force must become equalized before attaining unity. The male, or conscious mind, looks to the female, or the subconscious mind, which in turn gazes up at the angel, or the superconscious. Only through this step-by-step process can we reach our source and draw upon its power and inspiration. The tree behind Adam symbolizes the signs of the zodiac. The flames on the left of the tree trunk symbolize the five senses, and those on the right symbolize the body and the original planets. Behind Eva is the Tree of Knowledge. The serpent in the tree, the kundalini force, gives them the power to create. When the kundalini is trapped in the lower center of the body, at or near the base of the spine, only the senses are fulfilled. One must raise the kundalini, or life force, up the spine to the higher centers in the head so that the life force can be expressed on a loftier plane. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Venus (and Gemini). As the ruler of 6, Venus seeks to bring together seemingly opposing factors into harmonious unit. These opposing elements are well represented by Gemini, the twins, which rules the hands, arms, lungs and shoulders; these are all pairs that must operate in unison if the body is to be well coordinated. Also, we use our hands and arms to express our love, by touching and holding. Many people cannot communicate effectively without the use of their hands. Venus gives us the urge to create a peaceful, loving and comfortable environment, surrounded by our family and friends. Number 6 individuals are oriented in this direction. Domestic life is your highest priority, and you find comfort and fulfillment in the home, or in home-related activities. Your artistic sense is developed through the Venusian symmetry, so you may be active in the arts, fashion, or home decorating. 7 AS A PERSONAL VIBRATION: You are a dreamer and a philosopher, and your destiny is your mind. You are attracted to the mystical side of life. Your clairvoyant and psychic abilities are marked, and you will develop the intuitive, introspective side of your personality. Often your psychic hunches foretell future events. If you develop your psychic gift, you can use it for the benefit of others. Realizing that you must leave behind the desires of the material world, you turn to the world of mind and thought. There you learn to enclose yourself behind secret walls, where your creative imagination roams freely. Poetry and music lift your spirits and transport you to other spaces. Your self-imposed periods of isolation make you something of an enigma even to yourself. You are often called a loner, and no one really knows you. Of all the numbers, you could most easily remain single, and in fact, many 7’s live as hermits or recluses. When it comes to carrying out your own ideas, you can be very determined. As a rule, orthodox religious beliefs don’t offer you enough spiritual substance; therefore, you will search for your own individual belief system. However, some 7’s stay with their church and rise to positions of great power. Pythagoras considered 7 to be the most sacred of all numbers, and his students took their vows or obligations by the number 7. In ancient days, a child born under the number 7 was immediately placed in the temple to become a priest or priestess. Today 7’s are found in the higher echelons of the church or as leaders in mystical circles. They gain spiritual realization and become masters. You are a perceptive person who understands human nature. When you meet someone you are not often fooled by their outer personality, but seem to scan their inner motives at once. Sometimes you make people uneasy with your ability to see right through them. Thoughts are words of the mind, and you become close friends with words, since you understand their protective, preserving and influential power. Your cultured, studious nature is enhanced and broadened by change and travel which you love. Your mind eagerly absorbs the information you derive from contact with foreign lands and cultures. You prefer living in the country rather than in the city. In the country you can lead a leisurely life in a dignified and conservative atmosphere. You have a retiring nature and, in that environment, you can experience the periods of quiet contemplation that are necessary for your mental development. The fastidiousness of your dress is unique; you would never wear someone else’s clothes, nor would you let anyone else wear yours. You seem to be innately aware that all people have their own distinct vibrations, which are transmitted to anything they touch. You are methodical, in keeping with the rhythm of the 7 which rules periodicity in nature. Although you have good business ideas, you should not enter into the business field, because you seldom carry out those ideas. Unselfishness, compassion and dedication are qualities you should develop. You have an idea of what the world should be. When the world does not conform to your ideal, you may become frustrated and depressed. Generally, you dislike advice, and others find it hard to convince you of things because your mind is so individualistic. A negative 7 is gloomy. Your disappointment in the outer world drives you to a lonely existence, where you become a hermit or recluse, and shut out the people who cannot live up to your ideals. However, by using your will and by gaining control of your tremendous mental powers, you can be a vehicle for good in a world that desperately needs what you have to offer: a sound creative mind. 7 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Reflection, rest, health, vacations. It is time to rest; God rested on the seventh day, and this is your seventh day. Become quiet and receptive. Think about yourself and your station in life. Analyze your goals, projects and relationships. Spend time by yourself and listen to your inner promptings. Write down your thoughts. You can be inspired by dreams, visions, and intuitions now; therefore, any writings you produce can be creatively moving. Use the energies of this period for mental exercise and discipline. Now you can master technical skills to aid in your profession, or benefit from philosophical and metaphysical disciplines including religion, yoga, transcendental meditation, astrology and numerology. Do not push your financial affairs under a 7. This is not a time to be impulsive or concern yourself with business. It is a time of physical completion and attainment in the cycles because you can see the consequences of your previous efforts. Matters mysteriously complete themselves without any effort on your part. Wait and let the cycle work for you. The number 7 rules the physical body and body functions; therefore, the forces within your body are now active. You must pace yourself wisely, rest and take care of minor problems. Abuse and overexertion can bring on physical maladies and illnesses. These discomforts force you to slow down, so that you will take the time to reflect upon yourself and your purpose in life, which is the most important reason for this cycle. Vacations are always pleasant, and now is a good time to take one. Be careful when signing any documents or legal agreements. Check every word and look for loopholes; when you have thoroughly scrutinized all aspects, sign with confidence. You will not feel the need to socialize at this time; rather, you prefer either to be alone or to be with people of a spiritual nature who complement and uplift your contemplative mood. Do not fight your inner urgings to rest, for that will only bring on physical problems and frustration. Instead, flow with this and look deep within yourself to discover the beautiful facets of your true inner self, the perfect jewel. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 7. The Chariot. The Chariot represents receptivity to the will of the one Source. The keyword attributed to this card is fence or enclosure, and its sense function is speech. Every word we speak is a fence enclosing an idea or thought. An eloquent vocabulary is a powerful tool for protection and preservation, as well as advancement. When we speak we set in motion a vibration that acts upon the ethers, space and akasha. Blavatsky said, “Sound or speech is a tremendous force when directed by occult knowledge.” It is only when we become still, quiet and receptive that we can be victorious. Then the primal force can work through us. Symbolically, the Charioteer is the soul, directing the chariot, the body. Notice that the Charioteer has no reins. It is mentally, through the will, that he directs the sphinxes, the positive and negative senses, to draw the chariot along. The starry canopy overhead indicates that we are recipients of celestial energies. The waxing and waning moons depict time and rhythm, which are stages of mind. This can be seen by their placement on the shoulders, ruled by Gemini, which is the first air sign, symbolizing the mind. The winged globe on the cart represents self-consciousness, elevated by aspiration. The disc with an upright rod through the center depicts the positive and negative forces joined in a working relationship. The square on the Charioteer’s breast indicates an orderly attitude, and his eight-paneled skirt decorated with talismans, represents the soul’s dominion over the material world. The message here is that through control of the senses, and elevation and purification of the desires, by the use of our own free will, we can achieve complete dominion while in the physical body. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Moon (and Cancer). The Moon has four seven-day cycles, and since the earth was created on the sixth day, the Moon, a satellite of the earth, could not have come into manifestation until after the sixth day. With 7 as the end of a physical cycle, we can readily see why the Moon is assigned to this number. Cancer, the crab, rules this key 7. The crab has a fence or shell which protects its soft body from the dangers of the outer world. During a 7 cycle, one is sequestered away from the world in some manner, as the crab, Cancer, withdraws into its protective shell to ponder recent experiences and examine them subconsciously (Moon). Number 7 people are quiet, introspective, analytical and very profound. They are the thinkers of the world, and are usually involved in some scientific, philosophical or metaphysical pursuit. Alone, they can mentally wander the universe, searching for the shell that will enclose their ideas with form and substance. 8 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: Strength, will and effort are the keywords for your nature. You have the ability to channel your energies in order to alter any given situation, so you will ultimately be a leader. The power you exert over the material world is a product of the discipline you expend. You are the big boss type with executive abilities, and you can manage and organize efficiently. With your sound business judgment and knowledge of the value of a dollar, you prefer a big expanding business to a small enterprise. You can be a great success in the financial world. You are shrewd, resourceful and ambitious for power, and failure just spurs you on to greater effort. You do not give up easily. You are a money maker, and will probably become wealthy. Some 8’s make and lose more than one fortune in their lifetimes. You are a down-to-earth realist. A career in finance, banking, brokerage, speculation or investment would be a good outlet for your energies. However, working for material gain alone will not provide the satisfaction you need, and you must learn to share your good fortune with others. You work zealously for the causes you adopt, and you should encourage your philanthropic leanings. Don’t neglect your spiritual side, however. Develop and live by a sound policy, so that if material reverses occur, you will still have a solid basis on which to rebuild. This is where your sense of balance and judgment is most necessary. You are endowed with originality and inspiration and you like to create so you are multi-talented in all areas of material achievement. With these qualities and your diplomacy, persistence and courage, you can accomplish anything. Many outstanding athletes come under the number 8 vibration. They achieve distinction through discipline, effort, will and strength. Also, an athlete needs a fine sense of balance and rhythm, which are qualities of the 8. Your marriage is likely to be based on a need for security rather than love. You want to be proud of your family, home and possessions. If you are a negative 8, you are someone to be feared. You can be a bully, domineering, selfish and ruthless, scheming for your own advancement. You may be a revolutionary, ready to overthrow and disrupt. Upheaval is a way of life with you. An 8 knows no halfway measures. It is either personal limitation or spiritual freedom, splendor or degradation. You must accept responsibility and handle it as well as you can. Use the positive 8 vibrations to create a stable material world in which you are willing to share your fine managerial capabilities and creative talents. Be guided by the philanthropist in you. 8 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Responsibility, money, business, karma. As ye sow, so shall ye reap. This truth will be most evident under an 8. You will receive exactly what you deserve during this karmic period, because it is time to receive payments and pay debts. Since 8 rules the material plane, if you have sown wisely, you can expect recognition and rewards. You may get the raise or promotion you’ve been waiting for, along with more responsibility and pressure. If you’ve been planning a business venture, this is the time to start by building a solid foundation for all your commercial enterprises. Face practical reality and put your finances in the black. Success on the material level is yours, so make your projects financially profitable. Be efficient, organized and concerned with tangible results. You will need energy and ambition to respond to the call you now hear. The inner drive for physical accomplishment is paramount, but you must be cautious. Don’t let the strain of your present undertaking deplete your energies. Those in power will help you if you ask. Because of the karmic implications of this cycle, you may receive an inheritance or legacy. You may have sown seeds of love and concern for someone who, in return, will give you material rewards, money, property or something of value. Whatever you receive is the result of your own past efforts. Be helpful to those who are not operating at your high energy level. In your drive to the top, don’t forget your friends and those around you. Lend them your strength and assurance, for surely this 8 cycle will show you the absolute necessity of sowing good seeds. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 8. Strength. The keyword for this card is the fang of the serpent. The serpent represents the kundalini, or life force, which, in undeveloped persons lies coiled three and a half times at the base of the spine. This force must be elevated, to transform the individual into a more spiritually-oriented person. All transformations in nature are actually specialized manifestations of this kundalini force. The only two numbers that can be written over and over without ending are 8 and 0. As such they represent divine power. The number 8 represents material power as well. In key 8 we direct this life force through suggestion. The woman is the subconscious mind controlling body functions and directing the amounts of vital force that the body receives. She also receives and acts upon suggestions from the conscious mind. Her dominion over the lion is through gentle and spiritual power rather than by brute force. The roses around the woman and the lion form a chain. Roses, representing desire, must be tended and properly cared for. In this context, a chain of roses is a series of cultivated desires. Any suggestion emanating from a desire sets up a chain reaction in the subconscious that eventually results in manifestation. The cosmic lemniscate (figure-8-shaped curve) over her head gives her dominion in this world. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Saturn (and Leo). Saturn is assigned to the number 8 and Leo has rulership over key 8, Strength. Saturn urges the expression of concrete achievement, and represents those who have the necessary determination and discipline to rise to the top in their chosen field. Leo lifts the spirits of an overly sober saturnian attitude and bestows a sunny and magnanimous acceptance of responsibility, as well as the ability to rule in a regal fashion. Number 8 individuals have the capacity for the top executive positions. They possess enormous reserves of strength, which can be called upon when the pressure is heavy. Many outstanding athletes also have an 8 in their personal expression. 9 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are a humanitarian, a universalist who thinks in abstract terms. Born for service to others, you want to make the world a better place in which to live. Since 9 is the last single digit, it indicates attainment, perfection and completion, the seeds for new beginnings, the foundation for future growth in the next or higher cycle. You have a thirst for spiritual knowledge and an urge for freedom and wisdom that transcends personal needs. You desire to live an ideal life according to your inspirations and aspirations. Through your responsive reaching out to the world, you become a beacon for others. The number 9 is a testing number. The higher you evolve, the more difficulties you may encounter. You should be tolerant of and merciful to others on your path. In this way you will be an example for them, and they will recognize your sympathetic and compassionate nature. People will be drawn to you for your deep and broad understanding. Your thinking is vast, and without limits. Because of your openness, your psychic abilities are well developed, and foresight, premonitions and predictions flow from you with ease. You seem to have a direct line to the mysteries of life. You have very strong emotions and feelings and could evolve a new philosophy for humanity. You are generous and idealistic. For anyone who needs your wisdom and guidance, you are open-handed and beneficent, because you realize that knowledge belongs to those who seek it. Charitable work is close to your heart, and you are likely to be a patron of the arts and sciences. Your associations with other people in your life are intense, but not necessarily enduring. You must learn to let friends go when their needs have been filled, because your destiny is to be a loner, a sort of recluse. You are not meant to sit alone meditating on a mountaintop, but your innate wisdom and understanding separate you from the crowd. You must share your wisdom to enlighten the world, so you cannot be bound by enduring ties that would limit your mobility. Your life cycle includes travel and associations with famous personalities who will be drawn to you by your free spirit and broad compassion. Your friendship encompasses the world. You easily acquire money and independence, so that you are free to pursue your worldly destiny. If you are a negative 9, you are self-serving and concerned with your own needs rather than the needs of others. This self-indulgence precludes belief in a higher source and can result in faithlessness. When crossed you are quick tempered. Your keen mind makes you a formidable enemy. Since 9’s have to live up to a higher standard than the other numbers, the resulting tension can cause nervous troubles. This can produce unhappy relations with others, including your mate. Corinne Heline says in The Sacred Science of Numbers: “The 9 individual has run the gamut of personal experiences, including both the high and the low, the mundane and the spiritual. It is the synthesis of these experiences which produces that sympathy, compassion and rare understanding which is characteristic of the 9.” Using the enhancing qualities of your number 9, you can be the visionary for whom all things are possible. Your faith in life embraces all and looks forward to evolution as the promise of the spirit. 9 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Changes, endings, charity, inspiration. Events take place quickly at this time, with many stops and starts, because you are experiencing a period of change and transition. As Paul Case says in The Tarot, “You must make the final selection between assimilable material and what is rejected as waste.” Eliminating the useless, and separating yourself from past mistakes can be an emotional experience, for we often are reluctant to let go of the obstacles in our lives. If you cannot free yourself from associations and situations that are no longer necessary for your development, then the 9 cycle will do it for you. A vacation or trip would be good therapy at this time, giving you time to think and separate yourself from the emotionalism you might encounter under this vibration. Many of your goals will be realized during this time, and you should attempt to finish all projects that are close to completion. As this is an ending cycle, do not make new commitments. Projects begun under a 9 have little durability. Present friendships can be cemented and made more enduring, and you may receive gifts from friends. This should be a charitable time, in which you think primarily of other people’s welfare. Do something for others in thanks for the blessings you have received in this life. An old friend or lover may enter your life briefly for one last encounter, but don’t expect this sudden renewal to last. Since this is an ending cycle, you may change jobs or residence. Children may leave home for higher education or marriage, or to begin their own lives. If you are separated from the people, situations and locations with which you have lived for a long time, it is because they no longer serve your evolutionary process. Use the creative powers of this vibration to develop your artistic abilities. You will have inspirational ideas that can be used productively in the future in a way that the next cycle’s number will determine. Don’t be caught by your emotions. Hanging on to the past, wallowing in what used to be can only bring discontentment, frustration and depression. Rather, look forward with joy and high expectations to the future, for which the releasing energy of this cycle has prepared you. Use the wisdom provided by the events of this cycle to inspire your actions productively in the future. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 9. The Hermit. The symbol for key 9 is the yod, the tongue of flame, the glyph that makes up every letter in the Hebrew alphabet. It represents the fiery energy, the life force, and the hand, opened rather than closed, of man and woman. In the body we are little serpents, containing a portion of the one Source’s fiery energy. As such, we are the hands of God operating in the physical world. The Hermit is a symbol of ageless wisdom, standing on the mountain of attainment. He has achieved. The snow represents the isolation he endures because his wisdom sets him apart from others. However, as he turns to shine his light on those who follow him, he intimates that our knowledge is empty and meaningless until we turn and give it to others. The Hermit has evaluated, selecting the necessary and discarding the unnecessary elements along his path. He has learned to use the Magician’s wand, which he now leans on, for he knows he can depend upon it for support. He has achieved mastery. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Sun (and Virgo). The Sun is assigned to 9 because it is only after you carefully progress through the previous steps, 1 through 8, that you can attain a position of respect and leadership, as well as a full recognition of your inner potential. The true inner self is expressed under a 9, as you become the humanitarian, the universalist who reaches out to the multitudes to lighten their burdens through your understanding, wisdom and compassion. Virgo’s assignment indicates that careful, thorough analysis has preceded this final position of authority. Any mistakes along the path could have led the aspirant astray; therefore, keen discrimination is necessary at all times. 10/1 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: If you embrace the philosophy of reincarnation, you will recognize that you are an old soul who has lived many lives of both high and low degree and who has learned how transitory the things of the earth are. You have a talent for influencing and bringing people together, and you are a power person who has a special spiritual mission in the world. Your word is power and your presence, peace. Therefore, your mission could be to establish peace and fellowship among the races and peoples of the world. Your clear thinking and comprehension help you to grasp and to use any situation to advantage. Leadership positions are open to you because of your obvious control and mastery. Your productive talents constantly revivify those around you. With a 10, luck, success, honor and material rewards are yours, for you easily attract and acquire those things that others struggle for so desperately. Complete attainment and realization are possible because you are in touch with your super-conscious although you may describe this as a deep inner feeling. You understand other people’s feelings and needs, and you have faith and confidence in yourself. These treasures are brought over from past life experiences, or, if you prefer, they are the capitalization of past experiences in this lifetime. Your wise use of previous experience means that your influence will be wide and pronounced. You take one step at a time and keep your mind on the goals you have set. The gradual turning of the wheel assures your progress, so your plans are likely to succeed. If you are a negative 10, you may be fixed, stubborn and opinionated. You are inclined to overdo and exaggerate your needs and desires. You may not realize your latent abilities until you are spiritually awakened. Once you are awakened, however, your influence knows no limits. Your power for good is phenomenal. 10/1 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Intuition, fortune, luck, a turn for the better. What you have been waiting for may now be yours. The culmination of a series of events brings success and material accomplishment. You could call this cycle a turn for the better, the start of something new. The innovative ideas and fresh beginnings you are experiencing now are really an expression of the law of cause and effect. Events that appear accidental or mere chance result from efforts you have already expended. This is an initiation period in which you may be required to stand alone and make decisions. Base your decisions upon precise and definite facts, then rely upon your intuition, which is based upon reason. Then you will know what to do. You can settle differences with previous enemies because of your clear comprehension of the situation and its problems. Events now reveal your understanding of the circumstances in your life. If you have worked hard and efficiently, you can expect to receive your just reward. Progress, improvement and advancement are yours. You may be awarded a special position you have been vying for, win the lottery, or inherit a large sum of money, which will help you start a new life. Realize that any of these experiences are the product of your own efforts. If failure and loss plague you, then understand that every circumstance in life is the result of the prior use of your energies. Decide now to begin to work and plan wisely, so that you can gain mastery over your future. The wheel of fortune keeps turning, and the next rotation can bring exactly what you want, if you begin now. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 10. The Wheel of Fortune. The symbol corresponding to this card is the closed hand, indicating mental comprehension. To grasp is to own; and to grasp your place in the world is to grasp what and who you really are. Therefore you never suffer material deprivation. The number 10 begins a new cycle, a repetition of the 1. Rotation and cyclicity are the keywords for the Wheel of Fortune. All is in the process of becoming; change is the only constant, so in due time, all things come to pass. The bull, the lion, the eagle and the man represent the four fixed signs of the zodiac: Taurus, Leo, Scorpio (the eagle is a symbol for the higher side of Scorpio), and Aquarius. The books that they hold represent the wisdom of the ages. They indicate the laws of the universe, which are immutable, fixed, and cannot be changed. The wavy serpent symbolizes the descent of the life force into manifestation. The jackal-headed hermanubis (an Egyptian god Thoth, also a race of jackal-headed men) shows evolution of form, while the human body and animal head indicate that man has not evolved beyond the intellectual level. His ears above the horizon of the Wheel show that man’s interior hearing or intuition allows him to rise to a higher level. The sphinx depicts the developed human being to which we aspire. The woman’s head and breast, coupled with the lion’s body, show the soul in dominion over the body, in perfect harmony, hence exemplifying the union of male and female powers. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Jupiter (and Mars). When we work with the astrological correspondence of the double numbers, we take the number on the right and see it work through the number on the left. Here we have the God power, 0, working through Mars, 1, to bring about new starts and a change in fortune. The Jupiter influence from key 10, the Wheel of Fortune, gives us the faith and optimism that our new beginning will ultimately bring generous rewards. Once we have completed the basic 1 through 9 cycle, every subsequent digit merely repeats one of the original 9. Therefore, we can see why 10 is considered a new start. With the 9 we have finished a complete cycle, and in 10 we have the promise that the God power within us never ceases, but merely changes form, and that the new form still contains the life spark, Mars. 11/2 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: 11 is one of the four master numbers, along with 22, 33 and 44. All master numbers are powerful because they accentuate the vibration of the base number to which they can be reduced. As an 11, you can draw upon the cosmic forces for inspiration and for aid in attaining enlightenment and even cosmic consciousness. Your pronounced intuitive abilities can guide your original, inventive and creative mind. As you will probably be a leader in some way, you must use these higher vibrations wisely. True mastery is service, and you need to be practical as well as idealistic in the role you assume. Foresight and acute perception make you a visionary. You are idealistic and feel compassion for all types of people, regardless of their station in life. The desire to uplift others brings out the teacher in you. You can be a memorable teacher, speaker, preacher or writer, whose deep understanding of people’s needs inspires them and opens new avenues of expression within them. Your talent for educating others cannot go unrecognized for long, and probably you will become famous. You are the specialist who seeks accomplishment rather than glory, but who always seems to gain recognition at the same time. You feel that administering the law is important, and you are not content to sit back and spout platitudes. Your devotion to the expression of wisdom must find an energetic outlet so that you can actively participate in areas of life where your philosophy can be effective. With your sense of justice, fairness and honesty, you can become a leader in public and civic affairs, where your impartiality promotes better standards of living for the people whose lives you touch. You have the courage of your convictions and will fight legally to see them implemented. Your life will be busy and active, forever meeting tests and challenges. If you go to extremes in emotion, fortune and health, the high vibration of 11 will pull you out with renewed and surprising courage. You are intrigued by ESP, the occult and mystical and spiritual studies. Through some metaphysical or philosophical discipline, you can more easily tap your great creative potential. As an inspirational artist you can create objects of exquisite beauty that can evoke deep feelings in the viewer. You should work with others of a like nature. If you don’t respond to the higher vibration of 11, you live life as a 2 (see the reading for that number). You become involved in the details of your work and you may be forced into a life of servitude in some capacity. If you are a negative 11, you use your power harmfully, which will work to your own detriment by creating negative karma. You may be unfair, prejudiced and severe, and you should beware of hidden dangers. However, you can redeem yourself through charitable works. Use your 11 to create a balanced life, in which all your actions are weighed and measured. Your great insight and inspirational devotion will be an oasis in the parched lives of many people. 11/2 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Tests, legal dealings, inspiration, art, quick decisions. This master number period can be experienced as a 2 vibration if you do not live up to the number 11 potential. You will have to make decisions quickly, because sudden events will require decisive action. Experiences occurring now are exciting, stimulating and likely to make you impulsive, so you must be patient and tolerant. Get rid of past mistaken thoughts and actions that have set up negative circumstances and select the right combination of attitudes to produce more desirable results in the future. There can be legal dealings involving money in some way. For example, you could be the recipient or the executor of a legacy. Financial settlements are possible, and agreements and partnership complications may have to be settled. Educational considerations may arise now, for the vibrations of this period are urging you to seek a balance and weigh the meaning of life. If educational pursuits will achieve this end, then you will have opportunities during this period to enter a school, take a course or perfect a skill. Because your mind is highly sensitized, you should develop your psychic and intuitive abilities. The power of 11 must be made into something tangible and useful. A course in some metaphysical discipline would help you organize the nervous energy that is your connecting link to the high vibration of 11. Or you could develop your creative potential by working with more than one artistic medium simultaneously, or by collecting works of art and attending the theater and concerts. Surround yourself with culture. You are likely to have dreams, visions and revelations under this influence. If you are already prepared mentally and technically your talents may be recognized by someone who will offer you a promising position, or you may receive public acclaim for some personal effort. The spotlight is on you in some way. This is a testing and challenging period. If you channel your intense energies into something worthwhile, you will accomplish more now than you will in any other cycle. Master numbers offer master accomplishments. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 11. Justice. Teaching, education and guidance come under key 11, which seeks to bring about balance through justice. The scales here also symbolize the doctrine of karma—work, action and reaction, the law of cause and effect. The outstanding lesson of key 11 is to weigh the meaning of present conditions and achieve balance by overcoming the errors of the past. Use the sword of discrimination to eliminate mistaken thoughts. Libra rules here also and shows us that we communicate only through the seventh house of cooperation and through the principle of love. Libra rules the kidneys, the organs of elimination that maintain the chemical balance of the body. Through elimination of the poisonous toxins in our lives, we ensure a balanced life. The scales represent balance. There are 7 straight lines of equal length in the scales, representing the 7 centers in the body, and the 7 original planets: Mercury (key 1), Moon (key 2), Venus (key 3), Jupiter (key 10), Mars (key 16), Sun (key 19) and Saturn (key 21). ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Uranus (Libra). The Uranus vibration is emphasized in master number 11. This is a testing vibration in which you are required to weigh and analyze the tremendous energy that is flowing through your life. If this great personal energy is used impetuously or unwisely, it can bring on accidents (a by-product of nervous energy), legal difficulties and impulsive decisions. Libra seeks to calm the nervous Uranian energy, teaching you how to use these abilities in harmony with the environment and be a help to others. The accident potential is transformed into a specialized drive toward a specific goal; legal difficulties translate into important contracts; and impulsive actions become positively decisive. The catalyst is you, and, as always, you must decide how you will use the raw potential of the number. 12/3 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are an unusual person who has accumulated inner strength through your unique experience. Your poise sets you apart from the common world, which looks upon you as a sort of oddity. Your thoughts are centered in spiritual analysis rather than judgment of others. You have a perfect tolerance for divergent beliefs, philosophies and life styles, and yet you walk in all things contrary to the world. You know that reality is illusion, and illusion, reality. Many people in the world are ill, in great suffering and poverty, unable to exist in harmony with others and have trouble accepting even themselves. You know that these afflictions are expressions of the law of cause and effect and that whatever happens is a result of the individual’s own choice, either conscious or unconscious. Modem science and psychology have proven this. By reversing or changing your thoughts, you become free of physical encumbrances. Knowing these facts, you embrace a philosophy that the world laughs at because your thinking seems wrong. Yet, without antagonizing anyone, you have quietly reversed your way of life and at the same time come to understand other people’s ways. Peace and serenity fill your being, because even though you are earthbound, you have attained a measure of freedom. Your life is free of materialism and worldly matters. You epitomize wisdom. By crucifying the personal life, you have allowed the true self to be born. Others come to you for peace and guidance, needing your faith in life and in themselves. Your life may be one of voluntary sacrifice in which you encounter difficulties, trials and renunciation; however, no adversity can disturb your deep serenity. You have trod the Wheel of Ezekiel, the zodiacal circle and have accumulated the courage, wisdom and presence of mind that will preserve you. 12/3 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Waiting period, change of view, reversal, submission. Stop, look and listen. This is a quiet pause in your life, when you should spend time thinking, learning to see things as they really are and not as they appear. By bringing seemingly conflicting polarities into perspective in your mind, you create an inner harmony that is reflected out to your environment. Meditate upon the fact that the miseries of the world are self-imposed, caused by negative thought processes. If your world is in disharmony, realize that your thoughts have created the problems, and that a change of view is in order. Meditation, trips to the seashore or countryside, classes in philosophy and mind relaxation techniques will help put you in touch with the power now working beneath the surface. By submitting your consciousness to the universal mind, you can begin to see the errors in your thinking. The important elements begin to take precedence as you center yourself in the eye of life. Your affairs will take care of themselves now, without effort on your part. Some situations will come to a head and many will be settled, but you should suspend all decision-making. Let the cycle work for you: observe, reflect and meditate. Find the serenity offered by the vibrations of this number. If you remain absorbed in physical matters now, you may suffer reversals in friendships and fortune. Sacrifices will be required through trial and loss. Rather than fight these forces, flow with them. You will obtain what you want by remaining passive, sympathetic and tactful, as this vibration achieves success only through acceptance. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Key 12. The Hanged Man. The keyword for the Hanged Man is reversal. The corresponding symbol means oasis, sea, or water. According to the alchemists, water was the basis of all life, the fluid substance that solidified into physical forms. This substance which emanates from the stars and suns, is called astral fluid. The Hanged Man symbolizes the first water of the divine power. Water was the first mirror in which the reflection always appears upside down. The significance of this card is that things are not as they appear on the surface. You must look beneath the surface for true understanding. The man is suspended by his foot, like a pendulum at rest. His crossed legs form a figure 4, indicative of key 4, Reason. His elbows and head form a triangle with the point down which is an ancient symbol for water. The Hanged Man represents a person who is poised in consciousness and under perfect control. He is conscious of the one Power everywhere, yet centered in himself. He sees the trouble in the world; people unhappy in marriage, in trouble financially and lost because they have no goals - and he knows it is because they all see things upside down. Yet they look at him and think that he is the one who is crazy. The Hanged Man’s philosophy sets him apart from the crowd and, at the same time, brings him peace of mind and perfect contentment. Perhaps the world should examine his views. The ideal is to grow out of materialism by transmuting animal passion to human compassion. The twelfth step sees a man reversed, hanging upside down by his foot. The law of reversal is the keynote here, reversal from living egocentrically to giving selfless service to others. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Jupiter (and Neptune). Vulcan (2) and Mars (1) in unison produce the Jupiter (3) influence in this 12 or 3 number. Vulcan in mythology tended the forges in which expansion (Jupiter) occurred within the fire (Mars). Jupiter, as ruler of Sagittarius and the ninth house, represents expansion through higher education and deeper philosophy. In a 12 or 3, the purpose of this mental expansion is enlightenment in the abstract secrets of life. Many people remain in a dark room (Neptune), troubled by the ambiguities they see and experience. The camouflage (Neptune) in their lives can be destroyed only by seeking the true knowledge (Jupiter) which will allow them to erase the blind spots (Neptune) in their thinking, solve the enigmas (Neptune) of existence, and publish (Jupiter) their own truths (Jupiter). 13/4 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: 13 has always been feared as the death number, and indeed, it does represent death, but not in the ordinary sense. Death is merely change. When we are born into this life, we die from another level of existence. When we marry, we die as a single entity and are reborn as a duo. When the struggling artist receives recognition, he dies overnight as an unknown and is reborn as a famous individual. Change is simultaneous birth and death. The death connotation of 13 has arisen because most people respond to its lower side: immersion in fleshly desires and encapsulation in matter. Death then occurs through destruction and degeneration of the body. A few people respond to the higher side of 13, which involves complete satisfaction and attainment through regeneration or using the tremendous powers of this number to create and leave something of value with the world. There are no halfway measures with this number. There is enormous potential for ultimate attainment and equally great potential for complete destruction. It’s all or nothing. Your life as a 13 will