ability to master speech and foreign languages to aid you in communication. You must use your good judgment and not allow yourself to be swayed by others. Many friends will help you, and socially and in business you will succeed. With persistence you will be victorious, and the pleasures you have sought will be yours. If you are a negative 32 or 5 you allow a haughty, proud nature to turn would-be friends into enemies who are eventually victorious over you. Your sense of superiority irritates others. This usually happens when you have attained a position of authority and feel guilty because you have not lived up to your potential. The rewards this number has to offer are delayed until you have learned the proper use of your energies. You have a charming personality, which gives you confidence. Your dominant qualities make you a leader and take you into positions of authority. You are attracted to government work and could become a leader in government policy and law making. You have a great sense of personal power and desire to see justice done in your life work. The laurels of victory are yours if you remain untainted by ego. You will gain satisfaction only if you know how closely allied you are to the Source which sent the power through you. Self-confidence is an asset in your career, especially if this is your Outer Personality or Life Lesson Number. 32/5 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Good news, humor, rewards, victory. You are experiencing a very favorable period in which you may receive good news. You reach the high goals for which you have been striving, and the recognition and honor that goes with them are now yours. You can enjoy the pleasures earned from your industrial efforts. Difficult situations are overcome and disputes are settled, and you come out on top. Settlements are made in your favor. Friends are very helpful during this period, and you can rely upon them for whatever you need, socially or in business. Your persuasive talents are pronounced, and you can easily sway others to your way of thinking. The messages you bring now can be extremely effective in counseling others or in just plain good advice. Do not allow pride in your accomplishments to make you overbearing, thus alienating potential and existing friends. Your pride can overturn all the good; then enemies gain the upper hand. This can cause delays in obtaining your goals. Develop a spiritual philosophy based on the awareness that your present power has come from the Source and is only working through you. Enjoy the satisfaction of knowing you were able to open yourself as a channel for that source to work through, but don’t mistake yourself as the source of power. This realization brings greater joy and satisfaction than the mistaken idea of the self as controller. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Six of Wands. A horseman crowned with laurel and bearing a laurel wreath on his wand is riding horseback triumphantly, while footmen with wands walk by his side. This is a typical picture of victory. The inner meaning is mastery over the animal nature, and controlled spiritual energy. He is a warrior for right, duty and responsibility. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Second decan Leo. This is a fortunate area of the zodiac, very progressive and expansive. It is a sort of peak period in the solar year. You have a religious or philosophical outlook, and you respect the conventions of the culture in which you live. You may be tempted to speculate in the stock market or gamble in other ways; if done without greed, these activities could turn out very well. You may experience vivid dreams, which you should make note of, for they could very well become a way to receive cosmic guidance. 33/6 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: 33 is the third master number. It is considered an upper octave of Venus, a love vibration raised to the highest level—compassion. It is called the Christ vibration because the title Savior reduces to 33. If lived to its ideal, this number will not be lowered to its base number 6; but if the individual cannot meet the standard it may be lived as a 6 vibration. It requires self-sacrifice and sometimes martyrdom. You are a teacher of teachers. You are required to spread your light and you must be willing to sacrifice for others or for your ideals. You are responsible for some special task; you have accepted this mission with conviction and an unfaltering steadfastness. With your courage and tireless energy, you inspire others to follow your leadership. You show bravery in difficult situations and maintain your position regardless of consequences. You accept the burdens placed upon you with patience and forbearance, without expectation of reward or even appreciation. You may experience a crucifixion in emotions. You are honest, self-disciplined, discriminating and law-abiding. You are also extremely versatile, creative, resourceful and imaginative. You appreciate art and beauty. Crowds disturb you; therefore, you prefer the country where you can get away from noise and turmoil. If you are not living up to the high potential of the 33, you may carry on as a 6, in which case domestic considerations take precedence. If you are a negative 33/6, you are emotionally unstable and will sacrifice yourself for any cause, even though it be unworthy. You become a doormat for others. You are anxious, fearful and indecisive; your false bravado immediately crumbles when you are aggressively attacked. Much responsibility comes into your life for which you get no appreciation. You are incarnated for a special purpose and may be unhappy or frustrated if your particular mission is not found. You are a reformer and have a strong desire to make the world a better place in which to live. 33/6 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Responsibility, self-sacrifice, courage. You have entered a period in which you should maintain faith in your inner abilities. You have been given the opportunity to use your energies to help others alleviate their problems. They will seek you out and ask for assistance. You must use discrimination in selecting those tasks which require your energy. Compassion for others may be given freely; however, sacrifice for its own sake is self-defeating and wasteful if not applied to the most urgent causes. Responsibilities will require your attention. Your home or people in the family may need your assistance, and older people might seek your shoulder to cry on. Accept your responsibilities with a loving heart and have faith and courage in the good service you are performing. The energy and strength you need will be available. Adhere to your principles in the face of all opposition, and the law of karma, as always, will repay in equal measure. Special situations will open your eyes and allow you to see into yourself and perhaps present a purpose for your existence, a clue as to what direction your life should take. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Seven of Wands. Six wands are already planted, which means that six senses (the sixth being intuition) are developed; and the seventh, the ability to leave the body at will, is being planted, or developed. The figure represents a person who is willing to work hard without thought of self, for he is dressed simply and works on a barren hilltop. He cares little for the luxuries of the world; he is interested only in higher development. Self-sacrifice and determination to give service to others are his goals. Sometimes this is a martyr’s card. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Third decan Leo. There is the power of the world beater in this area of the zodiac, but the problem is best expressed in the old proverb: “He who would conquer the world must first conquer himself.” The fiery power of this decan (the total power of the fire trinity) may have enough impetus to propel you to extremes. You need to develop steady but progressive attitudes in making your way in the world. You have a strong pioneer spirit and innate leadership qualities. You are tireless and can inspire others to work with you for worthwhile goals. 34/7 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: This number rules orderly growth and development. It is connected with the hidden mysteries of life. You can integrate the material, mental and spiritual worlds and bring about a systematic approach to your evolution. You are practical and conventional, seldom overstepping the bounds of formal behavior. You stick to the facts as you see them. You are trustworthy, honest and patient, with a keen intelligence and discriminating mind. People can depend on you for straight from the shoulder answers to their questions and sound advice for solving their problems. Your wisdom makes you a person who is much sought after. You are philosophical and introspective, with strongly religious leanings. These inclinations to the spiritual aspects of life, coupled with an open mind, make you very intuitive. Your mind travels freely without obstruction, and you dislike any restrictive discipline. Journeys will carry you to many places during your lifetime. You will experience all modes of travel, but flying is probably preferred. Since you are articulate, lecturing and writing are good outlets. As expressive as you are, you have learned to be discreet and you can be trusted in all things. You have a determined approach to life, and seek your goals with a hopeful, expectant attitude. You embrace patience because you understand that progress takes time. If you are a negative 34 or 7, you are impatient, impulsive and reckless. You are selfish and not above using your keen mind to outwit an opponent. At times you may resort to violence to attain your goals. 34/7 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Haste, messages, settlements. Pursuits are approaching completion, and your rewards are in direct ratio to the efforts expended. Stagnant conditions are stirred up, and final settlements are made. This is an active, hopeful period in which you rapidly advance toward your goals. You may receive communications of all kinds, and these messages propel you onward. Your messages are dashed off in return. Romance is emphasized now, and messages of love fill the air. A negative reaction brings about disputes, legal difficulties and delays. Business and love relationships can stagnate. Quarrels and domestic problems arise, sometimes because of jealousy or rash behavior. It requires extra effort on your part to bring about a settlement. Travel, perhaps by air, is very likely in order to bring affairs to a successful conclusion. This period sets the wheels in motion. Your affairs are obviously progressing, and you can see that time brings all things to their designated completion. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Eight of Wands. Eight live forces move swiftly through the air, unobstructed over open country. All follow the same direction, pointing east toward the light, and aim toward the earth and water. The lower wand is actually touching earth and water to show the blending of the three parts of mind and the four elements. It depicts the integration of the above with the below. The significance of this key is orderly growth, with much cosmic help. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: First decan Sagittarius. You love outdoor exercise, walking, swimming, horseback riding and most games and sports. You also have a high regard for the spiritual side of life and believe that nature has a lot to offer. You have a hopeful and enthusiastic outlook on life, and you believe in right and justice. You are clever, quick-witted and humorous, while possessing a level-headed practicality that keeps you in balance with the times. Wisdom is one of your virtues. You are frank in speech, often blunt, but people know where you stand, which is admirable. You like to aim your arrow toward the stars and gain results quickly. 35/8 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: This is called the inheritance 8 because its bearer usually inherits money, power or position, and sometimes all three. You have an individualistic, forceful mind, a tremendous vitality and a sense of what the public needs and how to supply it; therefore, you make a good executive, business person, teacher or researcher. You work and play hard because you enjoy strenuous activity. You have a great deal of personal charm and are attractive to both sexes. You have many interests and could succeed in any number of professions. You are friendly, helpful and considerate. Emotional balance is important for you. You need stability to control your dynamic energy and achieve success. Travel is one outlet for your tremendous vitality because it satisfies your need for freedom and action. You may meet opposition during your lifetime; however, you are prepared. Inner strength and power and a healthy body give you the tools to defend your position. Through dedication and consistent force, you are eventually victorious. The negative 35 or 8 produces doubt, unreasonableness and unbending judgments. You become self-indulgent and undisciplined, which brings on weakness, ill-health and many bitter emotional experiences. However, with your vision and foresight, you have the opportunity to be a leader, who is able to supply both mind and body. 35/8 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Preparedness, strength, inheritance, recognition, business. This is a period when almost anything can happen; you should be prepared for whatever comes. The demand is toward more responsibility and discipline; you will need to use your stored energy source. You may be promoted and therefore have to withstand more pressure and more work. The honors bestowed now reflect past efforts. This is a money vibration, and job advancement usually means an increase in salary. However, inheritances also come under a 35/8, so this is another source of money. The pressures of this period will affect your health only if you work and worry too much. Allow sufficient time for rest, follow careful eating habits and relegate the demands of the material world to their proper place. Your health can improve through the exciting demands placed upon you; you will never feel more alive. So use the tremendous vitality this period has to offer. Get the job done, whatever the job happens to be. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Nine of Wands. Eight firmly planted wands make a fence between the figure and the outer world. The ninth wand is held in readiness for use if necessary. This is a picture of strength and latent power, both physical and spiritual. It implies inherited strength for work well done in the past. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Second decan Sagittarius. A strong independence is inherent in your nature. You are a bit impulsive and forceful. You like to be at the head of things, and you have the executive ability to back up that desire. You must not let overconfidence lead you to take on more responsibility than is comfortable. Keep your nervous energy in check and control your desire for too much expansion. You can usually find your way out of a jam, but it would be better to take the middle road and accept the simple laws of personal discipline. 36/9 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are a determined person who perseveres until all obstacles are overcome. You may be called upon to carry a heavy burden of some kind during your life, but you have the ability to face this sort of circumstance, while proceeding ever onward toward your goal. Energy and common sense are part of your makeup; therefore, you preserve what resources you have. Your dependability, persistence and intensity lead you to a position of power and authority. You have a natural executive ability. You are trustworthy and can inspire and direct others. You see things from a broad viewpoint. Large and important enterprises are exciting, and you are not afraid to tackle them, for you do not fear responsibility. Your strength is expressed in kindness. You are a believer in justice tempered by mercy. Sympathy for others increases your loving nature and blankets your life with good influences which lighten any loads you must carry. Your quick intuition and inspired nature allow you to see into the future. This, combined with your inventive mind, creates the ability to discover. Your discoveries should be directed toward the uplifting of others. By performing service you find the Holy Grail or the Christ within your innermost being where all ideals await manifestation. You are sometimes described as the salt of the earth, and you must be careful that your earthiness does not bring on waste and selfishness and impose additional burdens on you. A negative 36 or 9 is easily upset and has continual ups and downs. 36/9 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Obstacles, intuition, invention, leadership. This vibration may temporarily place some burden on you; however, persevere with relentless determination. Remain intent upon your goal and have confidence that it will soon be reached; all problems will then be solved. Have joy in the prospect of this completion. You are now endowed with great strength, intuition, vision and optimism. This can aid you in working creatively, finding solutions in research and completing projects in progress. If you wisely use these energies, you need not suffer any emotional difficulties. The separations, endings and apparent losses in this vibration are necessary to free you for the new cycle you are about to enter. Problems may have to be settled legally during this time; by projecting optimism and honesty, a favorable outcome is assured. Any losses occurring now involve only those things that you do not need. Upon closer scrutiny, you will find that this is true. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Ten of Wands. This key represents the binding of one’s forces to preserve and protect them. Spiritual forces, if used as a spiritual fence between the individual and the affairs of earth, serve to blind one and lead to an attempt to escape from the discipline of matter before its lessons are learned. Thus it is not advancement but rather represents arrested development. The lesson of this key is to guard against the repression of energy and force and use it instead for invention and upliftment. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Third decan Sagittarius. The ultimate decan of the fire signs sometimes brings emotions to extremes. You are impetuous and need to control your feelings when dealing with others, as they may not understand your personality. You must be careful not to be a plunger, dipping quickly into things without careful thought. You could, however, develop the ability to preserve your assets and become fortunate in speculative ventures. Your compassionate nature can be awakened so that a philosophic and prophetic nature comes to the surface, which could prove to be very beneficial for yourself and others. THREE: THE CUPS. 37/1 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are a mature, reserved individual whose calm exterior belies your desire to rule. You aspire to prominence, to be in a leadership position in which your inherent expansive and emotional nature can be expressed. Your friendly, kind and generous qualities promote goodwill among your followers. A slight militancy emerges into a dedicated defense when you feel the institution of the home and family is under attack either physically or intellectually. Although some 37's or 1’s remain unmarried, they nevertheless value a home as a secure base for future happiness. The life partner you choose will be a great help toward your success, and together you will create peace and pleasant fellowship. Business and religion are equally attractive to you. You are just as able to apply your nurturing and expansive philosophy to investments and international banking affairs as you are to the spiritual problems of others. Travel and overseas projects intrigue you, and you could be attracted to some sort of foreign service as an ambassador or agent. Your talents and devotion bring you the position and emotional security you need. You then share your blessings with others. If you are a negative 37 or 1 you have a calm exterior which conceals a dishonest, perhaps violent nature. You use all forms of trickery to gain your ends. 37/1 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Friendships, partnerships, love, family. During this calm, happy period, a friendship with an influential person can help you to achieve the results you desire. This help may come through your mate or through an existing relationship. You will feel drawn to your family, ready to protect and defend them against any adversity. A slightly militant attitude arises when you feel they are threatened. The love vibration is strong, and if you are looking for a mate, you could very possibly find a suitable candidate. This is a fortunate vibration for making plans with the opposite sex. You may be attracted to philosophy, science and the arts. Religious and spiritual subjects also interest you, and your creative talents find expression in these fields. Business prospers and you benefit financially. Pursuits during this time may require travel, possibly over long distances. TAROT SYMBOLISM: King of Cups. The King carries both the scepter of power and the upright cup of controlled emotion. His throne, floating on water, represents the idea that his subconscious sustains him. The leaping fish on one side and the fish on the chain around his neck show his involvement in spiritual matters. The ship depicts his involvement in the world of commerce. He is the lord of wisdom and commerce because of his wise use of emotions. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: First decan Cancer. This decan is ruled by the Moon. You are mild, reserved and home-loving. The life partner you choose will be a great help toward your success. You aspire to prominence and could be attracted to some position in foreign service, such as ambassador or agent. Travel interests you. Friendships, love and partnerships are part of your lifestyle. 38/11 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: This is a powerful master number both spiritually and materially, as this vibration carries the gift of vision. You have achieved a perfect blend of the conscious and subconscious, which grants you a rapport with spiritual things. You are poetic and imaginative and can see things that are hidden from most other people. Through dreams and visions, you see the goals you desire. You can act upon them and bring them into reality. You have an intense, powerful spirituality, with the visionary qualities of an avatar. The security and material advantages of the world are yours. Love, success and a happy marriage blend to create the harmony you so desire, thus allotting you the leisure time in which to further pursue and develop your dreams and psychic faculties. You are a good parent dedicated to your home and family. You receive much joy from them, and you take pride in their accomplishments and energetically back them in all their endeavors. Through your thoughtful interest, you become an influence in the lives of others. People are affected not so much by what you say as by the example you set. Your life is a pattern they wish to emulate. Abuse of these beautiful energies through the extravagant use of your material wealth causes problems. Deception can degenerate into immorality, at which point discord disrupts the harmony of the home and business world. You know that true happiness comes from service to others. Material donations are not enough; you have to develop the gifts of the spirit as well. You should engage in charity work or contribute to and participate in educational programs. 38/11 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Love, marriage, dreams, visions, rewards. This is a master number period which demands a great deal from you but promises even greater rewards. Your cup runs over. Many advantages come your way, and your fondest desires can now be fulfilled. People in high positions not only offer you assistance but may bestow some sort of recognition upon you. If romance has been lacking, this vibration should very nicely fill that void. The love you encounter now is deep and abiding and can develop into marriage. Existing relationships are enhanced and family members are drawn closer. Your dreams bring messages from your subconscious. You are tuned in to secret areas of your being that are usually closed off. A powerful spiritual force is present, moving in your life to awaken a deeper part of you. This is a time to give not only of your material wealth, but also of your time, talents and compassion, the gifts that have the only true lasting value. Metaphysical disciplines should be learned and practiced now, so that you can adequately contact your higher sources. So much of value will be found that the material benefits of this lucrative period will wane beside the glitter of the gifts of the soul. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Queen of Cups. The Queen holds the ornate cup of vision and sees in it the events in the sphere of the zodiac; therefore, the cup portrays the divine gift of reflective clairvoyance. She wears a red and blue robe that blends the conscious and subconscious minds. The cherubs on the throne represent the guardianship of the divine beings who protect and guide her. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Second decan Cancer. Scorpio and Pluto are underlying influences in the second decan of Cancer. You are proud, reserved and introspective. Your perception makes you a visionary, and you tend toward spirituality. The 3, the number of Jupiter, and the 8, the number of Saturn, act in combination as if the planets were conjunct; this aspect is found in the charts of holy leaders and sages. 39/3 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You have selected a life of service to others. You offer affection, love and sympathy in order to help make the world a better place in which to live. You are a crusader who wants to feel that the world has benefited because of your sojourn in it. You are idealistic and philosophical. You desire justice and you will make a vigorous stand for your beliefs. No obstacle can deter you from finishing a project once you have begun. A gentle poetic nature makes you a romantic. You dream beautiful unhurried dreams that inspire you to enlarge the scope of your life. Your imagination dovetails nicely with a keen intellect; together they achieve an expansiveness that inspires others. You will live a long and healthy life, in peace and contentment, surrounded by friends and loved ones. The love you give is returned abundantly, which fills your cup even fuller, until the love must spill over into the lives of those who are in need. You exemplify the saying: “Love wasn’t put in your heart to stay, Love isn’t love until you give it away.” Each time you give you are rewarded ten-fold; thus your life is ever enriched. You will communicate this love to all you contact. If you are a negative 39 or 3, you live a sensual life, indulging your every need. You are lazy and sometimes insensitive to the suffering of others. 39/3 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Love, propositions, vacations. Thoughts of love dominate this period. You feel warm and friendly, and you desire to share these feelings with others; therefore you draw people to you. Friendships develop, one of which may deepen into a bond of love. Messages and invitations of various kinds are possible. People seek you out, wishing to join you in a goodwill project. You may be offered a partnership or proposition. This is a leisure time. Your unhurried attitude and general good feeling may prompt you to take a vacation or get away to a quiet spot that matches your contemplative mood. Faraway places lure you, and you should heed the call. Relaxation, love and affection are the goals of this romantic period. A negative reaction brings contracts and propositions that should be looked into. There can be fraud and deceit. Any delays here are for the best. Do something good for someone else now. Every effort on your part will be fully rewarded under this delightful vibration. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Knight of Cups. Both Knight and horse are gentle and unhurried. The Knight approaches calmly with a cup of affection held out as an offering to humanity. His robe is decorated with the divine fish symbol. The stream, running serenely through the valley, depicts the Knight’s calm emotional attitude. The entire picture is one of peace and contentment. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Summer (Cancer, Leo, Virgo). Love dominates this period. Summer is a warm time of year when leisure or vacations promote affection and love. Cancer imbues you with a sympathetic and loving nature; Leo bestows powers of leadership and high goals; and Virgo demands service to the world. All these qualities combine to create an idealistic crusader. 40/4 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are an honorable and confident individual. You have developed an orderly lifestyle. You are methodical and careful with money and know how to invest wisely. You believe in a square deal, and you want the same in return. These talents have ensured your material well-being. Through research and study you build firm foundations for your projects. As a result you are usually successful in business. Mathematical talents lead to a gift for statistical analysis. You have learned to deal wisely with people and are considerate of their needs. Your quiet, receptive nature is influenced by the feelings of those around you. Your studiousness and meditative nature find a natural channel in the study of literature. You are a peacemaker and you handle emotions well. Love and passion have evolved into love and compassion for others. You are sure of the eternal life. Since you have the God symbol, 0, backing the 4 in 40, protection is assured. Inner guidance is always available. If you are a negative 40 or 4, you see only difficulties and obstacles in your life. This creates confusion and disorder. You squander your money chasing illusive goals and build your castle upon sand. If you maintain an orderly and secure existence, you will create a sound base from which to draw the strength to pursue realistic goals. Then you leave lasting values and substance in this world. 40/4 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Finances, building, birth. This is a good planning period. New techniques can be implemented now. Building a business, a house, or both, are possible ventures. You are advised to use caution in all financial dealings; handle your money wisely. Whatever you plan can be successful if you invest wisely. Set up a budget and put your affairs in order. This period will require a systematic existence; only then will your subconscious carry out the plans you have devised. Messages of all kinds are forthcoming. The birth of a child, the beginning of a business enterprise or a new lifestyle may be announced. These affairs all require that old habits be left behind; therefore, breaks and separations are a necessary part of this cycle. Be discriminating about those in whom you place your confidence. Obstacles may present themselves; however, the solution to these problems will uncover past procedures that impeded your progress. With this knowledge, you realize that the obstacles are in reality a blessing. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Page of Cups. This quiet figure is beautifully dressed in the lotus-decorated costume of red and blue which indicates that the conscious and subconscious mind have made the wearer sure of eternal life. The lotus is a self-renewing plant, which contains both male and female elements. The Page’s cup contains the fish, symbol of the divine; therefore, love and passion have turned to love and compassion for humanity. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Third decan Cancer. The Piscean influence which underlies this decan of Cancer gives you literary ability. You are usually successful in business because your intuition and practical good sense make you a keen investor. You are gifted in making statistical judgments, careful in matters of finance and honest in business dealings. You are influenced by the feelings around you and prefer a peaceful, orderly environment in which to live. 41/5 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are offered all the pleasures of the world in abundance. This number carries divine help and protection. You are extremely versatile because you are able to reflect upon the inspirations you receive. Through spiritual nourishment you translate concepts into reality; you create form where only ideas existed. You are thus able to enjoy all the material benefits the world has to offer because truly your cup runneth over. You radiate love, faith and enthusiasm. You show courage when things go wrong. You can tackle anything, and usually do, with considerable success. Inspiration and energy combine for speedy and satisfactory results. You are a pioneer, you enjoy change, but desire practical and useful results. Love, happiness and productivity follow you. Since you enjoy many of the pleasures of material living, you must control a tendency to indulge your senses. A pleasure-seeking personality can result and your abundant creative faculties are diffused in sensual pursuits. Your creativity extends to the family, and you can produce many children. You will provide them with a loving, comfortable home. By applying your talents toward useful goals, you can achieve all the material wealth and comforts anyone could possibly desire. You can also create a loving atmosphere from which others can draw inspiration and nourishment. 41/5 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Love, abundance, fertility, change. Joy and contentment fill your life now. The abundant rewards of past efforts are available, and you radiate happiness and confidence. You enjoy the beauty and pleasure surrounding you and feel good about yourself as a person. Creative forces are at work here, producing not only material goods but relationships as well. The love of your life may appear, or existing ties may be deepened. The birth of children brings happiness and reinforces your belief in the goodness of life. Conditions are changing; new opportunities will alter many habits and situations. Take your time making decisions because impulsiveness can overturn all the good effects of this period. Hasty moves in business can bring losses. Love relationships may falter if the selfish appetites of one party are indulged at the expense of the other. Use the creative and potentially fulfilling vibrations of this cycle wisely, and you can expect your wildest dreams to come true. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Ace of Cups. A white dove, symbolic of peace, truth and the Holy Spirit, drops the seal of Jehovah into the cup. The five streams of water emanating from the cup represent the five senses overflowing into a lotus-filled pool. When we give our sensitivities and emotions, we create an unending supply of love. The cup is held by the guardian angel or the Hand of God, from which cosmic inspiration flows. Falling drops of water take on the form of yods, the divine power. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: The element water (Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces). All the qualities of the water signs are built into this vibration. You have the loving, protective nature of Cancer, the deep creative understanding of Scorpio and the sensitive, reflective qualities of Pisces. You have courage when things go wrong. Your inspiration comes through receptivity and reflection. 42/6 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You have a friendly, cooperative nature. Your desire to help others and your complete dedication to peace and understanding equip you well for the ministry. Professional work along artistic lines is your forte as well. You would be a fine singer. You have a creative imagination and a strong leaning toward the mystical. You should make an effort to train your intuition along practical lines. You need an outlet for your inner urges and a means to exercise your imagination. You could find it through writing stories. Children’s stories might appeal to your sensitive nature. You see beauty everywhere and should express it in a tangible way for others to enjoy. Your personal charm and your pleasure-loving, generous nature draw others to you. You intuitively realize their needs and work to create a happy atmosphere wherever you are. You need the sociability of friends and would not be happy living alone. Since you are hospitable and repay kindness with kindness, there is little danger that you will have a solitary life. However, those who try to fulfill their own selfish needs will, under this vibration, feel lonely and misunderstood. Home and personal relationships are important to you; you need to be discriminating to control the emotion involved here. You believe in doing the right thing and sharing equally in all relationships and binding contracts. When you make commitments, others are assured of an honest and abiding bargain. 42/6 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Contracts, marriage, meditation. There is a blending of minds now, a harmony on the mental plane that seeks to bring ideas to a common meeting ground. Contracts and agreements that have been pending can be settled amicably and fairly with both sides gaining equally. Your cooperative attitude creates an atmosphere of happiness and harmony. Worthwhile friendships will form and bring personal fulfillment. This is a vibration of love. For some it brings love affairs, for others, engagement and marriage. This is also a meditative period in which you will be urged to give form to your inner feelings. Beauty appeals to the sense of harmony that you are experiencing. Time spent alone should be used to get in touch with those inner feelings and to bring them out where others can appreciate them. Begin to develop any creative talent you possess. Since the keywords now are love and cooperation, you will encounter situations in which these qualities must be exercised. Do not allow misunderstandings to lead to separations; then the meditative aspects of this cycle will degenerate into loneliness. Seek peace through understanding and you will benefit from any contacts you now make. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Two of Cups. The man and woman are exchanging cups to demonstrate the law of give and take. This is also the symbol of the duality of creation. The winged lion above the caduceus is a composite symbol meaning: “The adept who has power to interpret to others knowledge of the higher worlds.” The woman is dressed in white with a blue outer robe to show the purity underlying the soul or subconscious. The man’s costume has a yellow background which stands for consciousness and is decorated with trefoils symbolizing the trinity. The house in the background represents the creativity of humanity or the united effort of male and female. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: First decan Cancer. You are receptive, sensitive, affectionate and usually psychic. You meet people with graciousness and charm. You need to guard against being too sentimental or effusive, as others may misinterpret your motives. You are very creative and need interesting activity to provide balance in your life. Home decorating or other types of art appeal to you. You would be most content not being famous but rather living a happy, peaceful life, surrounded by a loving family. If there is a keyword in this decan, it is love. 43/7 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are a true friend, affectionate and tolerant of others’ whims and foibles. Your pledge of friendship endures many tests. Your sympathetic nature and sense of justice reach out to the young and the underprivileged; you are always willing to help someone in need. Your gentle nature may hide a strong determination to reach your goals. You know when to be silent. Clear thinking is one of your best attributes, and it is most effectively developed in constructive activity. Your positive approach to life, temperate habits and ability to make logical decisions create an atmosphere for success. Fulfillment and abundance are the fruits you pick as the result of your clever productive actions. Your achievement of power and financial security allows you the freedom to enjoy the comforts you have earned. You enjoy being in a position of power. Your power extends to healing, in situations where the energy you possess can be transferred to the energy fields of others, thus creating a new life for them. You are a dependable person with poise and a sense of balance. Your strong intuitive powers and discernment are based on your ability to accumulate facts. These talents will contribute to your success as a teacher, writer or speaker, if you choose any of these professions. Whatever profession you choose, you will bring to it your constructive and creative ideas, positive attitude and fine mind. The rewards will be plentiful. However, you must control any desires to overindulge in food, drink and unhealthy relationships. Excesses will lead to physical and emotional pain. Rather, share the abundance of your life with those who are less fortunate. Such an effort increases your own store. 43/7 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Abundance, rejoicing, healing. Congratulations are in order. This is a period of rejoicing because the results of your past endeavors are now evident. You have concluded matters successfully and realized your goals. The rewards are yours. If your pursuits have been professional, you now realize financial increases, promotion and business expansion. If health has been an issue, healing takes place. Family difficulties smooth out, and you are overwhelmed by success, peace and extra benefits that you are now enjoying. This is a restful vibration, so loosen up and enjoy it. Follow your routine or take a vacation, but maintain the status quo. Pushing new ventures and pursuing new avenues is not part of this cycle. Sit back and relax. Be careful that your celebration does not degenerate into overindulgence. Too much of the good life can bring on physical discomforts. If you select your partners indiscriminately, relationships can suffer. So eat, drink and be merry in moderation. You have earned it. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Three of Cups. This key depicts the celebration of bounty and good fortune. Three maidens jubilantly toast the happy outcome of their work—the abundant harvest pictured around them. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Second decan Cancer. The sensitivity in this area of the zodiac is subtle and inclined toward the occult. You are progressive, deeply emotional and sentimental. Your experiences become more definite; your goals, more clearly defined. You are somewhat secretive about your personal life and often silent and introspective. You know instinctively when to talk and when to listen. You may be surprised at your strength in an emergency. You prefer to lead an even-tempered life, but you can really spring into action if the occasion demands it. You fully enjoy the good things in life. You have the capacity to accomplish skilled work in valuable enterprises. 44/8 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: This is a master number and, as such, demands more from you. You are a steady worker. You will persevere in your chosen goal because you exercise discipline. You conform to the demands of a situation, and make the best of it. You prefer to be in an environment where steady progress brings concrete results. Your success comes from useful enterprises. You are extremely resourceful and cautious. You plan your actions well in advance. You could achieve distinction in political or military affairs, where self-discipline and expediency are the keys to success. You are brave in battle. You possess the will to face adversity and the energy to overcome obstacles through sustained effort. Common sense and logic back up your judgments. You enjoy order and stability. Yours is a conventional approach to life. There is a great deal of the materialist in you. Guard against too deep a desire for fame and possessions. This can lead to overwork, poor health and material losses. You then close yourself into an ignorant, do-nothing world and become discontented and frustrated. Therefore, you should investigate new opportunities to broaden your horizons. Make room in your orderly existence for things you did not plan on. You are well developed physically, mentally and emotionally, but you may be missing the intuitive link. The opportunity to develop this side of your character is present. Work on becoming aware of what you cannot see; tune in to your inner self. When you have achieved this awareness, you can express the master number vibration. Serve the material needs of the world through productive actions, actions first inspired on the inner plane. You can supply the comfort and common sense advice that help keep this world together. 44/8 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Karma, re-evaluation, opportunity. In this master number period, you are being offered an opportunity to reevaluate your present circumstances. You have the time to contemplate the value of the rewards you are now receiving. If past efforts have been productive, you will see an increase in status and finances. Others will bestow kindnesses upon you; friends and family gather and increase. However, past efforts may only bring unwanted and restricting burdens. You may want to give up, sit back and do nothing. If you feel discontented and closed in, you need to establish new priorities and set worthwhile goals. The experiences of this period may graphically depict the missing link in your makeup. Chances are the material world is well represented. Things are happening physically, and you are reacting emotionally, which sets you to work mentally. Your mind contemplates and wonders if this is all there is. At this moment you are reaching out for the Hand of God or the intuitive side of your nature. You are looking for the answer that puts your world into perspective. That answer can be found only within yourself. You can find that answer now and give it form by sharing with others the rewards or experiences this cycle has given you. Your advice and wisdom will set others upon their path of liberation. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Four of Cups. The figure is seated in quiet contemplation and concentration. He sees three full cups in front of him, and he seems unaware of a fourth cup being offered by the Hand of God coming from the cosmic cloud (hidden wisdom). If he seeks divine aid with patience, meditation, self-control and persistence, it is available to him. His calm physical appearance shows that mental activity is what brings results. He must choose a worthwhile goal or the proffered cup could be lost. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Third decan Cancer. This decan will be felt more on the mystical or inner plane than on the extroverted personality plane. Thus you are more sensitive to vibrations around you or those coming into your aura from outside contacts. You are kind, hospitable and sympathetic. You may be attracted to a career in nursing, dietetics or some phase of social work dealing with the handicapped. A life of service to others befits this vibration. Your ideals are high, but you need to keep your dreams practical. 45/9 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: This is a highly sensitive, mystical vibration. You will not be satisfied with worldly success alone. The positive energies of this vibration can lead to high psychic development. You sympathize with the unfortunate and take on their heartaches. You love to teach and serve; you have the fortitude to face emergencies with courage seldom found in other number vibrations. Working with groups and organizations can be satisfying; you can effectively teach them through your own experiences. You are secretive, reserved and proud. You are determined to successfully carry out your ambitions, as you are also receptive to new ideas, willing to work, and feel no limitations in doing so. This drive can be detrimental if it causes you to overwork. There is conflict between your emotions and your common sense. You need to practice control and conserve your energy. Do not go to extremes in pursuit of your ideals. Emotional dissatisfaction arises only when you dwell on the past. Disappointments, sorrow and loss ensue when you stubbornly cling to old ways that have outlived their usefulness. Use the experiences of the past as stepping-stones to higher elevations. Then through your words and example you can teach others to renew their lives and build a brighter future. You are affectionate and generous. If things go wrong, you are eager to set them right. Look at what you have as resources, rather than at what you do not have or have lost. Then you will achieve the delicate balance necessary for your happiness. With patience and hope, stressful situations can be transformed into lessons which you can teach to others. This vibration often produces an early marriage and many children. 45/9 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Old friends, partial gains, learning experiences. There can be gains and inheritances during this cycle, though perhaps they are not up to your expectations. You should not brood over any partial losses that occur now. Use what you gain to initiate something new. Do not spend your energy regretting past mistakes. Learn from them and proceed onward. There will be sufficient gains here for you to realize that a better use of your personal energy will bring even more reward the next time around. An old friend may return for a visit and remind you of your past. Use discrimination in dealing with those you encounter; don’t expect too much from them. When you have successfully learned from the past and let go of it, you will form new alliances that will open doors to the future. You will become aware of some of your own resources which you have overlooked until now. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Five of Cups. A cloaked figure looks sorrowfully at three spilled cups, not realizing that there are two cups left filled. This indicates that losses should not be brooded over. By turning around to face a new start, other resources are always found with which to carry on. In other words, do not waste energy regretting past mistakes; learn from them, and go ahead. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: First decan Scorpio. You have definite goals and a fixed determination to carry them out. You feel a sense of inner power, which may be expressed as pride or self will. You are strongly attracted to the occult. You seem to have boundless energy; you quickly bounce back from any defeat with renewed vigor and quietly go about your business. You know the power of silence. Many strongly motivated reformers or missionaries are born in this decan of Scorpio; the desire to change things for the better seems inherent. You are a tireless worker when motivated by your ideal. 46/1 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You have a dominating personality. You work and play with equal passion. You win others through your charm and wit, cloaking your strong will under a gentle manner. You are a natural leader. You like to be the center of your world and must guard against taking advantage of those who admire your popularity, or those who could be misguided by your fine showmanship. You have high ideals and could choose a profession in science or philosophy. With your highly developed psychic sense and strong intuition, you could also be an inventor. Any of these pursuits enable you to express your humanitarian ideals. If you choose an idealistic profession, keep your goals practical. This number often acquires money, but loses it if ideals are impractical. But this number is also willing to start again, and you can attain another fortune. Positions of power and authority are natural for you. You are strong willed and intense. You set your goal and go after it in a steady and methodical manner. You are, however, willing to share your good fortune because you are generous, warm and tender. Your ability, imagination and enthusiasm bring you success in work and play. A happy childhood and comforting memories give you the stability to venture forth in the world expecting, and therefore receiving, the best life has to offer. If you are negative 46/1 you live in the past, surrounded by memories, refusing to accept the present. You can be childish and irresponsible, thereby attracting, as a natural reaction to your output, a worthless circle of acquaintances. 46/1 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Good karma, new opportunities, success. You are now the center of attention. You may receive gifts or inheritances of some kind from situations that existed in the past. A childhood acquaintance may appear with a gift, or a kind act in the past may bear fruit today. It seems that your attentions are riveted on the past through the happy events of the present. Joy and contentment fill your heart; you should share these feelings with those around you. Your environment changes somehow. Either you find yourself in new places with new people, both of which promise good returns, or your old environment receives new vibrancy through fresh opportunities and relationships. Through subtle persuasion, you can win others to your way of thinking. They will follow your strong lead because you are presently tuned in, psychically and intuitively. You can achieve any goals you set for yourself now, if you maintain a steady application of personal energy. Your enthusiastic attitude and flair for the dramatic during this cycle impresses others and aids you in gaining the support you need to be successful. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Six of Cups. The six cups are brimming with flowers, showing fruition. The five-pointed-star flower indicates human emotions purified and transmuted into compassionate love. The childish male figure in the Fool’s cap recalls key 0, or Uranus, which, exalted in Scorpio, here implies that the highest gift is purified love. The cross, commonly called Saint Andrew’s cross, is the cross of humility. The significance is that while we “become as little children” (Matthew 18 verse 3) or believe as little children on the earthly plane, we manifest our progress. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Second decan Scorpio. Unique experiences come into your life. Sometimes it is a sorrow which quickens your sympathies or otherwise turns your ideas toward the spiritual. You are willing to share with others; at all times you perform what you believe to be your duty as a good citizen. This area of the zodiac is at a peak of the solar year. Great creative power is a birth endowment here. Many musical and scientific geniuses have been born at this time of year. You get along well with others unless they try to dominate you; then the quiet rebel within you comes to the surface. For the most part your charm outweighs your aggressiveness, and much happiness and achievement is rightfully yours. 47/11 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: This is a master number vibration. During your lifetime you will face many tests of character and emotional stability. There is conflict between the emotional and practical sides of your nature; therefore, determination, caution and tact must be your watchwords. To perform at the most efficient level, you need to have a goal. Once you do, your personal charm and magnetism will sway others, and you will be offered the wealth and glamour of the world. Great dreams of success and wealth dance in your head; visions of grandeur take form in your imagination. Your abilities to influence others, inspire confidence and attract affection assures success; success that worldly people imagine they want. There is a flaw, however. As you attain these treasures one by one, you begin to realize that they do not bring the happiness you had expected. They do not have any real value. You are the epitome of the adage: "To whom much is given, much is required.” You are required to use discrimination - to weigh, test, balance and discard. Use silence and imagination to gain wisdom and inspiration. When your emotions are controlled, inspiration guides your life. You learn to handle money well and would be good in financial areas, such as banking or accounting. You also have great creative potential. You grasp new ideas easily and work with great speed. In whatever field you choose, you must express humanitarian qualities for a fulfilling life. You are adaptable, yet you have a strong will which helps you meet unexpected challenges. Use your natural and spiritual riches to bring stability and harmony into the lives of others. Learn the necessary discrimination to make the right choices. Do not mistake emotion for love or allow your illusions to affect your need for reality. 47/11 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Discrimination, dreams fulfilled. This master number vibration demands additional effort from you but promises greater dividends. Do not sit back and build castles in the air. You could scatter your creative energies in the fanciful pursuit of success. Many of your imagined desires can become realities now if you develop realistic methods to achieve them. You need willpower and determination to implement the ideas that you select as worthy. Many temptations can arise to distract you from the actual purpose of this cycle. These temptations will test your discriminative faculties. You will have to decide, through weighing, selecting and discarding, where your true values lie. Maintain a balance between the emotional and practical factors and make your plans accordingly. You may have mystical or psychic experiences. Use those experiences and rely on your intuition for guidance. Make your choices wisely during this cycle; be ever aware of the true value behind the illusions you see. The proper selections can bring true love, happy marriage, material prosperity and spiritual peace. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Seven of Cups. The figure stands facing seven cups filled with symbols of the gifts and tests to be handled during this life. These seven are: vanity, fame, ego, illusion, jealousy, frivolity and glamour. All are nebulous (floating on clouds). They represent what the worldly person imagines are desirable, but as they are attained one by one, it is realized that they do not bring happiness or any real value in life. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Third decan Scorpio. You may experience many domestic changes which will demand that you develop patience. You have ESP, which can be developed into prophetic or healing power. Strong interest in the occult, inherent in all the Scorpio decans, is especially strong in the third because of the trinity of rulers: the Moon, Neptune and Pluto. You are a romantic. Because you are deeply affectionate and loyal, you would become deeply depressed if the object of your love proved faithless. Try to be cautious in placing your affections. Do not build up illusion over any human being; to do so opens the possibility of disappointment. You handle money well and would do well in financial pursuits. You are flexible without being wishy-washy. Weakness is no part of your character. 48/3 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: Worldly success comes to you quite easily; however, as each possession is gained, you set it aside and go on searching for the satisfaction it should have brought. You yearn for something more, and when you realize that the material world alone cannot offer you the necessary fulfillment, you may turn toward the spiritual. You should not, however, turn your back completely on the mundane, for that could obstruct the practical mechanics of living. Learn to use the material, without depending on it. You are romantic, sincere and affectionate. You have high ideals. You appreciate beauty and the arts and have your share of creative ability. Your psychic and prophetic abilities are well developed. Your impressionable nature would find the arts a good channel for success. You are quiet, persistent and dependable. But you may be too psychic and sensitive for your own comfort. You have a good sense of values and prefer to live conservatively. You believe in giving a good day’s work to your employer. If you were the boss, you would expect the same from your employees. A sense of fair play is one of your assets. You have the ability to see both sides of a problem and judge fairly. Learning to laugh in the face of difficulties will relieve your intolerance of the purely materialistic side of life. You must remember that your keen sense of responsibility toward others, your sympathy for their suffering and your desire to do your part in the community and the world can be expressed through material means in many cases. Your love of animals and need to protect them is expressed here also. You must detach yourself from materialism, though you may be required to use materialistic means to accomplish your mission. 48/3 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Success, success abandoned, travel. You have reason to celebrate. Many of your goals have been reached, and the rewards are forthcoming. You feel generous and loving; you want to share the good things with those around you. Horizons broaden, and as they do, new relationships form. Perhaps a new love is among them. Travel may be a part of the picture, lending even more excitement to an already festive time. Be aware that what seems most important now may turn out to be unimportant in the future. Know, too, that dissipation of energy can result in unstable conditions. If you find the goals you have attained bring little satisfaction, you should seek to operate from a higher level. Use your material gains to alleviate the sufferings of others. Some experience during this cycle may be the catalyst that turns your materialistic mind toward the spiritual and humanitarian realm. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Eight of Cups. There are eight full cups representing the three parts of the consciousness and the five senses, all under control (because the cups are upright). Yet the lone figure is leaving all that behind and walking toward the dark mountain of the unknown. Penetrating the mysteries hidden in the mountain will bring the wisdom being sought. The robe is red to signify desire for further knowledge. Under the guidance of the Sun and Moon (eclipse symbol), he is responding to his inner urge for something higher. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: First decan Pisces. Sometimes you worry over things that never happen and expend unnecessary energy in doing so. Develop a philosophy of faith in yourself and in the future. You are very sympathetic toward animals; you will adopt a stray cat or dog who seems unfed and unwanted. This comes from your deep desire to help those who suffer. This same understanding includes people, of course. You are hospitable and generous. You have the gift of wisdom which makes you kind and just toward others. Poets, musicians and scientists are born in this area of the zodiac. The poet Longfellow, the pianist-composer Chopin and the scientist Copernicus were born in this decan. 49/4 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are a person of many gifts; executive ability, integrity, intuition and a sense of justice, to name just a few. You can apply these attributes to practical business enterprises and achieve excellent results. You are diplomatic in your relationship with others, patient and honest in conducting your affairs. You also have a sense of when to act and when to wait, an essential ingredient of success. You have emotional control in both business and personal matters. Material success, physical well-being and security go with this vibration. Material happiness and contentment are yours. You love to display the good life you have attained. Your home will reflect this in the form of fine furnishings and full cupboards. This is the result of the pride and satisfaction you feel in your achievements. You enjoy good health and a hearty appetite. You are an example for others to follow by depicting what hard work and perseverance can ultimately bestow upon the achiever. If you are a dreamy 49 or 4, you develop a lot of theories that are seldom carried out. This is because success seems to come too easily. Drive does not seem necessary, and inertia prevents you from attaining all that you are capable of. You are more intent on personal satisfaction than achievement, and you can become sated by your own desires. Insincerity creeps in, and your ego inflates along with your body, as a result of a gluttonous approach to life. Ill health can result. However, the tendency under this vibration is toward a balance between the mind and emotions. This leads you onward and upward, in both mental and spiritual development. 49/4 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Good health, satisfaction, marriage to a wealthy individual. This is an excellent cycle for business matters, as long as you maintain an honest, persevering attitude. Through steady application, the coffers are filled, and you feel a sense of satisfaction and physical accomplishment at a job well done. Outer comfort lends inner tranquility, a healing balm for any ailment. Your optimistic, serene attitude will bring about improvements in health. You may put on weight; therefore, be selective of the type and amount of food you eat. Marriage here will usually involve wealth and may be for security instead of, or along with, love. The home will be well supplied with food and material comforts. Be careful not to overindulge in food or drink. Examine your pursuits and desires now. Will they lead to freedom from anxiety, poverty and insecurities or just replace one set of restrictions with another? TAROT SYMBOLISM: Nine of Cups. The seated figure is the picture of physical and emotional well-being. His cups are full and he is protected by the blue curtain of the creative mind. A balance of mind and emotions always brings material success and inner satisfaction. This is the card of fulfilled hopes and wishes. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Second decan Pisces. This is a sensitive and affectionate decan. You are unusually fond of your home and family. You are tenacious in your attachments and may have to learn to give others the same kind of freedom you want for yourself. Your psychic nature is well developed. Your intuitions are keen and helpful as you believe more and more in yourself. You work better and live more happily when practical, emotional balance is gained; otherwise you may become hypersensitive. Use your fine strength of character wisely. 50/5 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: This is the vibration of lasting success and happiness. It bestows a life surrounded by friends and affection. You are romantic and intensely emotional. You are devoted to your family, and you seek a mate who epitomizes the perfect love. Personal magnetism makes you attractive to the opposite sex, so there should be plenty of candidates to choose from. Your life will be one of activity and movement. You are a socializer who enjoys conversation and people. Public life may draw you. There you can use your eloquence in lecturing and public speaking for the pursuit of social betterment. You could also succeed in literature and science. You are especially good in mathematics and could work at accounting or analysis, professions that require your keen perception. You are both creative and imaginative. Your instinctive understanding of others makes them seek your counsel. Leadership comes naturally, and your energies find constructive outlets. With all your possibilities for achievement, you nevertheless prefer beauty and pleasure to wealth and fame. Your contentment comes from love of family and friends. You enjoy being able to move freely in, and communicate with, the world around you. All numbers containing 0 bestow divine protection, and your sense of security shows in your relaxed and confident personality. A negative use of these energies brings waste, loss of or betrayal by friends, and family troubles. You will seek freedom from all responsibilities and become enslaved by this very need. 50/5 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Love, family ties, happy changes. This is an extremely active period of socializing with family and friends. Happiness and contentment abound. A special person may enter your life, one who represents your ideal image of a perfect mate. The love relationship that ensues will bring lasting enjoyment. Many happy changes occur now. You may move into a new environment which promises greater fulfillment, or you may alter the present situation to your benefit. You may receive honors and gifts. They are the rewards of past efforts, for which you could also receive public recognition. Conversations, messages, letters and meetings bring good news and promising opportunities. However, the overall energies of this period encourage you to relax, take a trip, and enjoy the fellowship of good friends and the pleasures of close family ties. A negative use of these same energies can cause family dissension and difficulty with friends. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Ten of Cups. Ten full, upright cups are elevated in the heavens. They are the rainbow of happiness fulfilled. The man and woman embrace, exalting the elevation of emotional life to a high state of consciousness. The children dance happily under the protective rainbow of promise. All good things of earth are pictured: lush green growth, water and the house, which denote permanence of achievement. Here, love has been raised to the plane of compassion. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Third decan Pisces. The natives of this last Piscean cycle are endowed with a psychic and intuitive nature. The practical side needs developing. Learn to use logical thinking with your intuition to bring about wise conclusions. Learn not to be easily led by stronger and more aggressive natures. You are really more likely to be right if you follow what intuition tells you. Learn to interpret its signals. This is the final cycle of the solar year. It contains strong vibrations for happiness if you make positive choices and form constructive habits for progressive action toward your spiritual goal. FOUR: THE SWORDS. 51/6 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You apply the spirit of a warrior to whatever cause you choose. Your leadership ability and your desire to uphold truth and justice qualify you for such a profession as the law, government or the military. You are intelligent and perceptive; you are able to make sound judgments, based on the facts, balanced with mercy. You adhere to the teachings of the past. You exercise firm authority that serves you well in friendships, but can often prolong enmities. You could be successful in the sciences such as chemistry or medicine. You probably lean toward professions in the law or the military, where life and death decisions are commonplace and where you can exercise your wisdom and sense of balance. You have an active mind, full of ideas which could bring you abundant wealth. Because of your abilities, you will advance in any under taking. You are cautious, yet you seem to walk through life untroubled, even in the midst of turmoil. You keep on smiling and talking cheerfully while subduing your inner fears; however, you are ever alert and observant and always prepared for all possibilities. There is a remote possibility of assassination threats if you are in prominent public office. An imbalance in this vibration can make you overly stem or cruel. Your harsh actions many times result in legal difficulties. You create enemies in your relentless drive for power; these rivals resent your injustices and stand ever ready to take revenge. 51/6 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Legal dealings, justice, perception, authority. During this cycle, disagreements and hostilities can result in lawsuits or legal dealings of some kind. You must be alert and stand guard against the harsh actions of rivals. However, injustices will be corrected. The law of balance will be rule. True and false will be separated. Maintain a cool, impartial attitude. Weigh all cases fairly to uphold the law. Your mind is keen, perceptive and extremely active now. Rely on it now to find alternative procedures for handling your affairs. Keep a positive outlook, a cheerful frame of mind and a vigilant attitude. You are the warrior fighting for the right; you will overcome all rivals. The challenging ideas that arise within can bring you the success and authority you desire. Listen carefully and follow your intuition. TAROT SYMBOLISM: King of Swords. A seated figure holds the upraised sword of activity, keen perception and discrimination. The screen behind the throne displays the butterfly, symbol of recurring life and circumstances. The waxing and the waning moons symbolize ever-changing ideas and opinions. The sword divides the false ideas from the true. The king sees the crux of the matter, and with swift justice sets matters right. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: First decan Libra. You are intelligent and perceptive. You have the ability to judge both sides and to make keen assessments. You are likely to advance in any undertaking; you are untroubled in the midst of turmoil, for you keep smiling and talking cheerfully. You balance your intelligence with mercy; you are truly a warrior fighting for right and justice. 52/7 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are high minded, noble and humanitarian, uncontaminated by the sordid side of life. You stand alone because your wisdom places you above the multitudes. Supported by the experiences of the past, you face the uncertainties of the future with confidence. Changing events and conditions do not dim your faith; you maintain your poise even under occasional emotional stress. You can always draw from your power reserve. Most likely you are well-educated. Your liberal ideas allow your quick, perceptive mind to understand things beyond the ordinary person’s ability to comprehend. This quality sets you apart, and you may decide to close the door to the material world and live a solitary existence in the spiritual realm. Because of these factors, this vibration is known as one of separation, sterility and widowhood. You are kind, patient and courageous. You try to live a well-balanced life. You finish whatever tasks you begin. However, you are more interested in the philosophical and spiritual than the material. You love nature and prefer to live in the country. If you express the negative side, you are narrow-minded and mean. Your jealousy drives others away, assuring that you will have a solitary life. Gossip, harsh words and a bigoted attitude further alienate even the most understanding friends. You seem determined to be alone, although the drive to be alone may be entirely unconscious. 52/7 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Change, separation, meditation. Changing conditions may separate you temporarily from familiar lifestyle patterns and you may experience a period of solitude in which you feel lonely and isolated. This is necessary to stimulate thoughts and ideas related to the spiritual world. You must learn to strike a balance between what appears to be real and what is real. In this manner you discover what has real value for you. Trips into the country or to the seashore are therapeutic for you now. Take along a few books on philosophy and religion and allow your mind to travel as well. Remember that the separations during this cycle are part of the everchanging rhythm of life, and changes bring new opportunities and challenges. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Queen of Swords. The queen sits on a throne decorated with butterflies, symbols of incarnation and reincarnation. She holds the active sword raised to discriminate between true and false. Her left hand is extended toward the unknown future, but she is ready to face whatever comes. She knows she has experience as her foundation, and she can draw upon that. Although the Sun is obscured by clouds, denoting that more is to be revealed, she is confident of the future. The waxing and waning moons on her throne show changing conditions. She leans on divine protection, symbolized by cherubs on the throne. Her throne is set high where the air is pure and uncontaminated by the sordid side of life. The single bird overhead indicates the solitude she has chosen because her wisdom sets her apart. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Second decan Libra. Venus and Uranus hold sway in the second decan of Libra. They produce a high-minded humanitarian. You lean to the spiritual and prefer the quiet atmosphere of the country where your mind can meditate without the distraction of city noises. You are intelligent, quiet and introspective. Your great wisdom may set you apart from the common crowd. 53/8 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You know that you have a lot to accomplish and no effort is too great, no obstacle too difficult. You like authority and know how to assert it; however, your assertiveness may be construed as tyrannical. Because your head rules your heart, you may seem set and severe, but you rule with a pure heart and chivalrous motives. Protection and defense against danger are your main concerns. Rather than sit back and wait, you prefer to be the aggressor. You make progress through your skill and ability to lead. Your bravery in the face of danger would make you a fine military leader. You could also excel in law as a criminal lawyer or judge. You have the necessary intellectual and communicative skills to sway others. With your strength and fine sense of timing, you could achieve professional status in any of the aggressive contact sports. You have the ability to separate fact from fiction; no detail escapes your notice. Your fine power of discrimination would make you an excellent detective. If you are a negative 53 or 8, you always seem ready for a fight. Your cockiness alienates others, and you seem to leave destruction in your wake. Chivalry degenerates into extravagance, and you become incapable of dealing with the situations that arise in your life. 53/8 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Sudden events, courage, discrimination. Someone or something is about to catapult into, or out of, your life. The situation is intense. You should play the aggressor and take things into your own hands. Keep your emotions under the command of reason and act justly. Challenging situations arise suddenly. You will need strength, courage and perseverance to handle them. Business, finance and the law may be involved. Deal wisely with whatever you encounter, and use reason to discriminate among the facts presented. Then you will overcome all problems and maintain, or achieve, a position of authority. During this period troubles come and go. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Knight of Swords. This Knight has a lot to accomplish during the autumn season. He rides far and fast. Riding against the wind shows that no effort is too great and no obstacle too severe for him to overcome. His raised sword shows him the true path by dividing the true from the false. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Autumn (Libra, Scorpio, Sagittarius). During the fall, people prepare for the long winter by storing supplies. Oversight can mean disaster. Because you have an eye for detail you would make a good detective. You are determined and may at times seem severe, but you must be able to maintain a balance and discriminate between the useful and the useless. You are courageous and have leadership potential. 54/9 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are witty, intelligent and eloquent. Those gifts assure you the respect of your peers. You have a keen practical and perceptive mind. You pursue your education, as you have a natural tendency to seek answers. You can adjust mentally to the demands of the environment. These talents make you a prime candidate for government work or the diplomatic services. You are always vigilant and seem prepared for any possibilities. Your subtle approach to difficulties belies your ability to arrive at swift, just conclusions. You are dedicated to the institutions and laws of the past, and you prefer to use intellectual processes rather than physical force to find solutions. Your restless nature is something for you to overcome. You are amiable, humanitarian and conventional in your ways. These qualities help you deal successfully with your problems. You desire peace and reject the frills of life. You enjoy good health and a long, fulfilling life. If you are a negative 54 or 9, you are cunning and sly. You use your fine intellect to outwit others. You scatter your energies and deplete your resources, which brings on health problems. But your scheming will be revealed, and you will be exposed for what you are. 54/9 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Vigilance, messages, secrets. Maintain a vigilant attitude during this cycle. Keep your imagination under control. You are unaware of some elements in certain situations, but they will be revealed to you. Adhere to your proper execution of justice, and those who work against you will be defeated. You must mentally adjust to unforeseen events which arise now. Look for the truth beneath superficial appearances, so that you will be prepared when the truth emerges. You may receive news or messages that will demand your energy. Successful conclusions can be reached if you keep your emotions under control. Others may be observing your actions during this cycle to see how you handle yourself. If they are enemies they wait for a vulnerable moment; if friends, they wait to see how you perform. Your actions can earn you a position of authority and respect. Illness is an enemy, so take care of your body. Eat well and allow enough time for rest. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Page of Swords. This Page is without frills or decorations. He has a practical mind which is at work revealing the truth. Truth is somewhat hidden behind the clouds in the background, but the air element, symbolized by the birds as roving thoughts, will aid him in attaining his goal. However, investigation and mental application are required. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: Third decan Libra. This decan includes the rulers of all the air signs, Venus, Uranus and Mercury. A restless nature and an amiable disposition are found here. You are witty, intelligent, very sociable and humanitarian. You have a natural ability to communicate and you sway others with your words. You are a natural scholar, and will most likely gain the respect of your colleagues. You will live a long and healthy life. 55/1 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: You are perceptive and therefore equipped mentally to explore any project, idea or concept. You have the ability to reason and the talent to write. As a dominating leader you reflect honest, high-minded and ethical ideals which inspire others to follow you. You are a pioneer, exuberant and energetic. You react intensely and are capable of extremes in all endeavors and pursuits. You are a champion of right and seek swift justice to maintain balance. You believe in law and order and try to remain poised between mercy and severity. This number dominates religion and morals, and you may be drawn toward the law or the ministry where you can most adequately express your keen sense of justice and mercy. You can ferret out information that others would overlook. You are a natural researcher, and would make an excellent librarian. Words fascinate you, and writing is another area in which you can fulfill your basic need to explore and reveal the secrets of life. Your writings would have tangible values for others. Through your love of communication you will meet many different types of individuals in your lifetime. Many children may grace your home, in keeping with your productive nature. Your children will benefit from your principles and may achieve distinction in their given fields. Negatively, your keen ability to make fine distinctions deteriorates into a confused and chaotic lifestyle. Erratic actions create obstacles, alienate friends and produce a sterile, lonely environment. A stem attitude results. 55/1 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Honor, birth, clarity. You may be honored now for some achievement in which you have expressed intellectual and leadership skills. It is the culminating triumph, the reward for prolonged endeavor. Since this is a period of culminations, separations are a possibility. An affair may end and people may leave your circle, thus altering your environment in some manner. This suggests that you are through with the elements of that relationship. Religious and legal considerations may arise here. This vibration can also bring the birth of a very special child who will in some way bring light and inspiration to the world. The triumphs of this period may set you off on a new journey that will require your energy and integrity. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Ace of Swords. The Hand of God holds the upraised sword of discrimination. The golden crown studded with rubies shows the honor that comes to those who use their mental powers wisely. The holly branch hanging from the crown represents the Christmas season and therefore birth. The palm branch depicts Easter and the resurrection. The six falling yods, symbolic of the developing sixth sense, are the divine sparks that continually fall into incarnation, in a never-ending cycle of birth and resurrection. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: The element air (Gemini, Libra, Aquarius). As a representative of the element air, you are mentally equipped to conquer any field you choose. Your mind is your greatest weapon and tool. It will eventually place you in positions where you must maintain balance in dispensing justice. You are a pioneer in the realm of thoughts, and others will look to you for ideas. 56/11 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: 56 or 11 is a master number and thus requires more effort on your part. There is nervous energy under this vibration. Through self control you can achieve and maintain a balance between your emotions and your intellect. You are perceptive and discriminating and do not judge by appearances alone. You make impartial decisions based on your intuition which is founded on reason. You may gain fame and fortune through the proper use of these talents. You are a natural peacemaker, and you like to create happy conditions around you. Strife is distasteful to you, and you are able to establish harmonious conditions in the midst of changing and unexpected situations. You are poised, modest and agreeable. You enjoy being popular so you develop one of your best qualities, which is charm. You are flexible and can yield to the opinions of others. You are affectionate and loyal to your family, sympathetic and responsive to the troubles of those around you. Military personnel and members of the government may be among your circle of friends. Music appeals to your finely attuned sense of rhythm. You are balanced and make an effort to stay that way. Music is a reminder of that balance. You will be successful in business. You sense what the public wants and needs, and you know how to supply it. If you express the negative, these fine qualities are reversed and will cause indecisiveness. You will be unable to choose wisely. Associates will prove untrustworthy and trouble will result. You will live an unproductive life. 56/11 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Balance, decisions, cooperation. This is a master number cycle. It demands more from you, but it offers greater rewards in return. Balance and self-control are necessary during this period of nervous energy. You must remain impartial. Do not base decisions and judgments on appearances. A favorable financial outcome may hinge on your ability to perceive the situation as it really is. You are attuned to the needs of others. You can play the role of peacemaker, settling disagreements at work and trouble in the family. As you project affection and understanding, you create harmony and a sense of well-being. You should be willing to help those in need, because, during this cycle, you have the insight to bring about settlements that are agreeable to all. Refusal to exercise these qualities results in indecision and stalemates. Matters go wrong because of a lack of direction which you could now supply. Be aware of the people you deal with. Some will not be honest with you. This will require more understanding and impartiality on your part. TAROT SYMBOLISM: Two of Swords. The figure is dressed in white to denote spiritual purity. Her hair is black (lack of light) and it is bound by the white band of wisdom. Her position is one of perfect balance. The Moon stands for the subconscious, and the rocks symbolize that which is stable, permanent or decided upon by the conscious mind. The figure is sitting on a cube of stone which shows a firm foundation for her convictions. ASTROLOGICAL CORRESPONDENCE: First decan Libra. Balance and justice are keywords for this decan. You have clear vision and keen perception. You are artistic, graceful and congenial. You prefer mental work to physical labor. You are fastidious because cleanliness is important to you. You avoid any career that necessitates messiness or dirty hands. You like variety and may not stay long in one job. You need to learn perseverance. You are usually optimistic and pleasant. You are a peacemaker and will go all out to avoid stress and strife. 57/3 AS A PERSONAL NUMBER VIBRATION: The positive expression of this vibration results in a charitable nature, with ability to understand others and help them with their problems. If the vibration is negative, you may experience disappointment and heartache. Do not allow yourself to indulge in self-pity; rather, develop your sense of humor. This is often an outlet for the more intense emotions that can be part of your life. You are dependable and serious and possess strength and courage in the face of adversity. Your happiness reflects your integrity in equal measure. You feel a conflict between reason and emotions; therefore, you should cultivate the art of logic to avoid being carried away by impulse. You have the artistic ability to express your fluctuating moods. You can portray them in pantomime or on the stage. Acting and the theater provide fine outlets for your creative talents. You may prefer to work behind the scenes, as a playwright for instance, and give support to those who enjoy the limelight more than you. Some of the most interesting people under this vibration are those you may never hear of, because they have done their greatest work in the background. You are independent and progressive, with humanitarian ideals. Become a strong force for good in the world, and you will feel that your sojourn on earth has been meaningful and well spent. Yours is the number of the understanding heart, although it may have been gained through suffering. You mature through your experiences. As a negative 57 or 3, you suffer losses and experience confusion. You become depressed and bitter and reject the extended hands of friendship because you fear being hurt. Separation and loneliness result. 57/3 AS A TEMPORARY VIBRATION: Separation, delay, expression, growth. Maintain a logical approach