Omnia in numeris sita sunt. (Everything lies veiled in numbers.) FOREWORD by FAITH JAVANE MANY OF MY STUDENTS and a number of people who have heard my lectures have expressed a desire for a complete textbook on numerology so that they could study their own life patterns in depth. Until now, I have neglected this responsibility, hoping that my classes would be sufficient. Also, I felt such a project to be beyond possibility. However, pressures have convinced me that a full-length text would be both acceptable and fulfilling. My study of numerology began in the spring of 1938. I found a teacher of astrology who insisted that before she would accept me as a student, I must study numerology. Since I very much wanted to study with her, I agreed to start with the numbers. Her approach to numerology, however, was like none other. She had received it in a unique way, from what she called the inner planes, which meant that she went outside her body to a mystical school for her instruction. She called this work Kabbalah because it had come to her through the mind and soul rather than from a flesh-and-blood teacher, or from a book. Kabbalah refers to secret information in symbolic form, whether in a numerical, verbal or hieroglyphic pattern. The biblical books of Ezekiel, Enoch and Ezra contain mystical revelations of hidden knowledge, including speculation about the mystical import of numbers and letters. The Kabbalist knew how to decode the esoteric messages in the Scriptures. I admit to some skepticism about my teacher’s beliefs, but I went along with her teaching. What she revealed we now call the Divine Triangle. It was known in the Pythagorean school (about 6th century BC) as the Life Theorem, and it is now commonly accepted as the proposition that: The square of the hypotenuse of a right triangle is equal to the sum of the squares of the other 2 sides. Pythagoras used the right triangle as a representation of the universe. It was his Eureka. According to my teacher, the master KH, whom she believed to be Pythagoras reincarnated, taught her that the right triangle could also be made to symbolize the world of an individual. This startling revelation is the original basis for the method of numerological delineation of the life pattern of an individual described in this book. In answer to many requests, I now present to you the secret of the Divine Triangle. FOREWORD by DUSTY BUNKER IN ANY PROFESSION one is invariably asked the question, “When did you become interested in...?” I have pondered that question long and deeply and now realize that it cannot be answered simply. There is no given moment when one thing ends and another begins. A great thunderbolt from heaven did not strike the ground before my feet, etching words in flame, pronouncing my destiny. Nor did I proclaim at noon on a Sunday, “I am going to begin now.” It just happened, naturally and with little fanfare. Metaphysics is as much a part of me as breath itself. As I studied over the years in one discipline or another, information began to fall into place more and more easily. Just as a child struggles to achieve balance upon those tiny feet, I struggled with many concepts and experiences until I found the proper balance. As the work progressed, the steps became easier and more natural. Now this philosophy I embrace so respectfully has become my love, my life and my devotion. I could speculate that it began eons ago in Lemuria or Mu or Atlantis or in the ancient initiation chambers of the Great Pyramid, or even in the sacred halls of the Lyceum with my beloved Pythagoras. Perhaps we do carry deep within our souls memories of past existences that eventually surge into our present incarnations, demanding fulfillment. Certainly, child prodigies are living proof of this possibility. Whatever the impetus driving us into certain professions, we seem to be inextricably bound to continue an evolution that some primal recollection tells us we have begun. I have been most fortunate along that path, for I was given the greatest of all privileges: a true teacher; that rare and much sought-after creature. In a pupil-teacher relationship, I met Faith, co-author of this book, in 1975. The relationship grew into a bond of respect, admiration and love. We presented our first book on May 1, 1976, and have now completed this, our 2nd book, inspired by the knowledge that there is a great searching in people’s hearts today, a need to comprehend the vast inner spaces as well as the outer spaces. Through this book we believe we can help fill that void with logic, reason, understanding and love. Through the sacred science of numerology, truths can be gleaned and souls can be set at rest. Go with us then, and discover your inner self, your reasons for being and the eternal splendor of the Spirit. INTRODUCTION THERE IS AN ORDER in the universe, from the atom to the solar system. Awakening interest in the rhythm of this order has called forth new efforts to synthesize the different methods used throughout the ages to understand it. Somewhere between the microcosmic and the macrocosmic, we look for the key that can put our world into logical perspective. We believe that the science of numbers can provide formulae which help clarify the evolving pattern of existence on earth. Enough ancient wisdom has survived the vicissitudes of time to suggest some basis on which to build new methods of analyzing personality, or at least to cast new light on the systems used in the past. Our methods, while containing the element of mystery, yet proceed in an orderly and practical way, using the numbers involved in names and birthdates to solve the enigmas of individuality, personality, and the patterns of function and fate carried through life by every human being. We invite you to experiment with this combination of ancient formulae and modern application. While it has not been presented, to our knowledge, in any book, it has been verified by thirty years of actual application and successful experience. The Divine Triangle, used as a blueprint of one’s life, reveals, step by step, from birth to death, what that life should express, indicating the potentials and pitfalls by a series of numbers from 1 to 78. We are all born at a certain date, hour and minute into the earth’s field of energy. The conditions and vibrations of that energy field determine to a great extent the particular actions and reactions that will characterize our entire lives. We are conditioned by the basic set of vibrations that were active when we took our first breath. The birthdate provides the pattern which we call the Life Lesson. The name given at birth, transcribed into numbers by use of the number-letter code used since ancient times and described in this book, provides the 3 vibrations we call the Soul Number, the Outer Personality Number and the Path of Destiny Number of a given individual. And by placing the name and birthdate formula on the blueprint of the Divine Triangle, we are provided with the key to the incarnation a soul has chosen for the attainment of certain goals. Your numbers tell the state of consciousness which you have reached and record the growth of your soul as well. One’s personal numbers are not isolated clues, but, like all phenomena, are interlocking pieces in the vast puzzle of existence. Therefore, for the benefit of those who wish to broaden their understanding of numerology, this book seeks to synthesize it with the sciences of astrology and the Tarot. To go into the vast and deep correspondences among the three sciences would require volumes; we are simply pointing out certain relationships that we have verified over many years. This book is divided into 2 parts. Part 1 presents the origins and philosophy of numerology. It explains how to determine the numbers that govern your existence and how to make a blueprint of your life by placing these numbers on the form called the Divine Triangle. There is also a chapter entitled More with Numbers, which shows you how to find the right career or determine your compatibility with someone else. A case study of Edgar Cayce, the beloved and well-known psychic who has been called the Sleeping Prophet, follows to illustrate the use of the Divine Triangle. Lastly, Part 1 presents a look at number symbology in the Bible, both in the Old and the New Testament. Part 2 of the book presents delineations of the numbers 1 through 78. Until now, numerology has been limited to the use of the digits 1 through 9 and a few double numbers ranging into the 20’s. The number 78 was not chosen at random; rather, it represents a total experience. The number 12 incorporates the basic 1 through 9 cycle, with an additional three steps in which to use the learned experience of the 1 through 9 cycle and bring it out to be shared with others for their benefit. It represents the 12 months of the year and indicates a complete cycle, a whole, a circle, as also exemplified in the 12 signs of the zodiac and the 12 disciples. The next step, 13, takes us into a new level of consciousness. Therefore 78, as an extension of 12 (1 + 2 + 3 + 4 + 5 + 6 + 7 + 8 + 9 + 10 + 11 + 12 = 78), symbolizes a complete round of experience. In the delineations in Part 2, the 78 numbers are fully described as numerical vibrations. They are also synthesized with the 78 Tarot keys and the planets, signs, and decans of the zodiac. As this amazing synthesis unfolds, one can only stand in awe before God’s work. Only a cosmic mind could have planned such an intricate pattern in which each science dovetails so exquisitely with the other. We repeat that to our knowledge this synthesis has never been attempted. The correspondences among numerology, astrology and the Tarot were not chosen at random; they have been tested through years of research and application. We believe they are accurate. We suggest that you try them for yourself, for it is only through personal verification that any belief or process is truly accepted. ONE. ESOTERIC NUMEROLOGY. NUMEROLOGY BEGAN when life began, because “in the beginning there was 1.” The vibrations then began and the 2 appeared, the first pair, and ushered in the real beginning of universal geometry. Numbers, by themselves, represent universal principles through which all things evolve and continue to grow in cyclic fashion. The digits 1 through 9 symbolize the stages through which an idea must pass before it becomes a reality. All manifestation is the result of these nine stages. Esoteric numerology is the art and science of understanding the spiritual significance and orderly progression of all manifestation. Every word or name vibrates to a number and every number has its inner meaning. The letter and number code, when rightly understood and applied, brings us into a direct and close relationship with the underlying intelligence of the universe. We owe much of our spiritual and scientific understanding of numbers to Pythagoras, the father of mathematics. Pythagoras is most commonly remembered for the Pythagorean theorem, which states that The square of the hypotenuse of a right triangle is equal to the sum of the squares of the other two sides. However, Pythagoras was primarily a mystic and a philosopher. He believed that “all things are numbers” and that numbers represent spiritual entities whose presence is felt in all existence. He discovered the mystical significance of numbers, noting that the numbers 1 through 9 stand, macrocosmically, for universal principles. On the personal level, microcosmically, they stand for characteristics, abilities and events. He saw in number patterns and geometrical ratios the explanations of all natural phenomena, musical harmony and tonal qualities. He knew that the stars and planets as vibrating bodies produced sound which became known as the “music of the spheres.” Pythagoras was born around 582 B.C. on the Greek island of Samos, in the Aegean Sea. As a young man he left home and travelled to Egypt, where he was initiated into certain mathematical doctrines. He is also reported to have studied with Zoroaster, the Persian sage, and to have learned the Kabbalah in Judea. The science of numbers he eventually taught was based on Kabbalistic principles. Pythagoras finally settled in Crotona in southern Italy and established a school of the mysteries. Before his students could proceed into the Pythagorean mysteries, they had to know the four sciences of arithmetic, music, astronomy and geometry. Plato was a follower of Pythagoras and it is to him that we owe most of our knowledge of the Pythagorean school. Pythagoras taught that, “Evolution is the law of life; Number is the law of the universe; Unity is the law of God.” He believed that everything in the universe was subject to predictable progressive cycles. His means of measuring these cycles were the numbers 1 through 9. He also taught that numbers have a significance apart from the values denoted by the figures. Numbers are different from figures. Numbers represent qualities; figures represent quantities. Numbers operate on the spiritual plane, while figures are for measuring things on the material plane. A lucid understanding of these digits is essential in the study of numerology because every number over 9 ultimately reduces to one of these digits. With a comprehensive knowledge of the meaning of these numbers, one can understand the orderly progression of all life cycles. The Numbers 1 through 9. Science claims that in a vacuum where nothing exists, in time hydrogen ions spring into existence. 1, as the first digit in the series, represents the ion, the beginning, the genesis, the first spark of energy emerging from the original source. It stands alone and isolated because it is the first; there is no other. It is independent of outside influences or assistance because it has chosen to seek its own self-expression, and cannot therefore be encumbered or swayed. It is decisive and independent and makes the choices necessary to ultimately determine its destiny. 1 REPRESENTS THE MALE PRINCIPLE, the yang. It is the pioneer, striking out alone, seeking the experiences which will establish its distinct identity. It is in the process of discovering its own abilities. It is raw energy, positive, original and creative, in a state of perpetual motion. Since 1 is alone and is imbued with so much creative energy, it must decide how its energy will be used. It must take command and have the courage to maintain its direction without fear of opposition. 1 is the real I AM of humanity, the unity of all, the unit of vibrational measuring. It is self-consciousness. Keywords: original, independent, aggressive, individualistic, creative, dominant; the first in a series, the start of any operation or activity, the leader, the pioneer, the boss who likes authority. “He who goes forth.” 2 IS THE PAIR, the duo. It is changeable and adaptable and can also be indecisive. It is the agent, the go-between, the diplomat and peacemaker, because unity can only be accomplished through a meeting of the minds, a compromise on each side. 2 represents the feminine principle of receptivity, the yin, which seeks a union of two distinct entities. It is the gestation period in which things begin to form. 2 collects and assimilates. It seeks a balance between opposing forces, and therefore represents cooperation, attachment and partnership. It is the peacemaker, with an avid attention to detail. Because 2 is so keenly aware of opposites, it has a pronounced sense of rhythm and harmony. Music appeals to its sympathetic and emotional nature. The maternal, patient and sensitive characteristics of 2 cause it to place others first, before itself. Union is its goal, not separateness; therefore, it is obedient to and understanding of others. It seeks harmony and assimilation above all. The hydrogen ions which sprang into existence under 1 are now hurtling through space. They will be drawn toward one another by the law of mutual attraction, or the law of number 2. Keywords: adaptable, tactful, understanding, gentle, cautious; a follower rather than a leader. 3 COMBINES THE QUALITIES of 1 and 2. It is a fascinating and diversified vibration, carrying the qualities of manifestation and self-expression. The ion, which sprang into existence from 0, sought to assert its individuality under 1 and felt the attraction of others under 2, now awakens to its need for social interaction. 3 is the need to communicate and become involved in the pure joy of living. Through its exuberant response to life, 3 bestows sunny radiance and enthusiasm upon all. 3 is the extrovert whose personal magnetism draws others and inspires them to expand and grow. It is the performer who possesses an innate appreciation of pleasure, romance, art and beauty. Its creative imagination allows all things to be possible; it therefore becomes involved in many emotions and experiences. 3 is friendly and expansive, thriving on sociability and variety. If any of the numbers could be called happy-go-lucky, it would be the effervescent 3. Keywords: expansive, sociable, dramatic, communicative, diversified, creative. 4 IS STABILITY, a 4-square consciousness, the symbol of law, system and order. It is firmness, security, stability and conservatism. It is the builder who must submit to earthly things where form and substance are the predominant elements. 4 is nature and relates to the earth. The formation of the earth took place on the fourth day in the biblical story of creation. The attraction the ions felt under 2 led to interaction under 3. Now, under 4, the inevitable concentration of energies occurs. Formation takes place. The ions realize that they can no longer scatter their energies, but must now begin to place them in a productive, orderly system. 4 therefore develops a practical nature, and through self-discipline, binds itself to a conventional routine exercise of its energy. Keywords: form, work, order, practicality, construction, stability, endurance, discipline. 5 IS FREEDOM, change and adventure. Curiosity and constant activity produce a resourceful, adaptable and versatile entity always ready to take a chance. Since 5 is the midpoint in the cycle 1 through 9, it allows for decision-making. It might be called the pivotal point in which the ions, now encased in flesh and form, must decide upon their future in the rest of the cycle 6 through 9. It now meets with many opportunities and varieties of experience through which it will be given the information it needs to make that decision. 5 is involved in much superficial interaction with groups and crowds. Because of its past varied experiences, it is the natural promoter and advertiser, fluent in communications, with a little information about a lot of things, and a desire to travel here and there to communicate it. 5 attracts the opposite sex because of an irresistible magnetism, and this attraction sets the stage for the domestic responsibilities which naturally follow under 6. Keywords: versatility, resourcefulness, adaptability, change, activity, travel, adventure, promotion, speculation. 6 IS CONSCIENTIOUS; it desires to bring harmony, truth, justice and a sense of balance into its environment. Love and compassion are uppermost in its mind, and it can therefore be an effective teacher, counselor or healer. Others are drawn to it because of the understanding which emanates from it. The ions, under 5, had the opportunity to experience many events and emotional encounters. They are now ready to take on social and family responsibilities, or the 6 vibration. 6 is a domestic and artistic vibration, and, under this number, the ions must adjust to the needs of others. The 6 desires a close companion, marriage and a home and family where beauty and harmony prevail. A need for group harmony and service to the community follows naturally. 6 settles down, blending into the conservative element of the community, where it can create better standards of living. Gifted in the arts, it can also express its creative potential through its developed sense of balance and become a fine artist in its own unique field. Keywords: family and social responsibility, service, love, compassion, counseling, healing, creativity. 7 SEEKS ANSWERS. It tries to establish a philosophy by which to live and attempts to penetrate the mystery behind its existence which it has never questioned to this point. Because solitude is necessary for analysis, the 7 feels the need to spend time alone, away from the crowds, in touch with nature. It looks for friendship with those of an elevated consciousness that can match its own. And on the seventh day God rested. All things rest under the 7 because time is needed in which to think. The ions under 7 feel poised and calm; they realize that they now need to be still and to know. They have established a routine for their energy, and now analysis begins. 7 ushers into the cycle a physical completion without apparent effort. Goals that have been long sought are now magically attained. Spare time is available in which philosophical and metaphysical interests can be pursued. Perfected thinking is the goal of 7, which is why it is called the sacred number. It is also why scientists, philosophers, teachers, mystics and the clergy come under this influence. The physical facet of 7 also relates to the health of the body which is highly sensitized through this vibration. Keywords: quiet, introspective, intuitive, analytical, inspirational, reclusive, philosophical, mystical. 8 WILL ASSUME POWER, for it now has achieved control and responsibility in its chosen field. Recognition and financial rewards are bestowed, and expansion and growth in the business world take place. Under 8, karma is king, and the ions will reap what they have sown. Power is the quality associated with 8. Ardor, zeal, steadfastness and the ability to see in broad terms give it the ambition and added qualities needed to achieve material goals. 8 has the drive to overcome all obstacles and eventually to succeed through ability and perseverance. 8 can now go to the very top with the ideas and plans that have been formulated gradually during the last seven cycles. Through fair and ethical standards, good judgment and organizational abilities, it will achieve recognition, power and financial remuneration. Keywords: power, responsibility, financial rewards, good judgment, recognition. 9 IS SELFLESSNESS and compassion. Encompassing a love for all, it desires to apply its energy to universal service. It bestows an impersonal but just view of life, one that is generous, benevolent and patient. This is the artist and thinker who has developed skills through the preceding cycles and is now ready to share his or her knowledge with the rest of the world. The ions are in their final state of completion. They have travelled the entire cycle of nine parts, ingesting experiences along the way. Now, in the closing cycle, they reach a total understanding and tolerance of others’ views and prejudices. 9 is ready to give back to the universe some measure of what it has learned through the eight previous steps of the cycle. The law of cyclicity allows for no waste, and demands input for output. When this is done willingly, the completion experienced under 9 brings only joy at the gift of life and the freedom with which to enter the next cycle unencumbered. Keywords: love, compassion, patience, universality, tolerance, selfless service, endings. TWO: YOUR PERSONAL NUMBERS AND PERSONAL YEARS. YOU ARE ENDOWED at birth with your own four personal numbers. These numbers tell you the lessons to be learned during your life and the spiritual growth and development which you can attain. The 4 personal numbers are: the Life Lesson Number, the Soul Number, the Outer Personality Number and the Path of Destiny Number. Your personal numbers are determined by the numbers in your birthdate and the letters in the name you are given at birth. To arrive at the numerical vibration of names, each letter in the alphabet is given a number value. A is 1; B is 2; C is 3; and so on to Z, which is 26. To work with the value of the letters beyond I, which is number 9, we reduce the value to a single digit. For example, L is number 12. We reduce the 12 by adding the first digit to the second; or 1 + 2 equals 3. The number 12 is then written as 12/3. The letter T is 20. We reduce the 20 by adding the first digit to the second, or 2 + 0 equals 2. The number 20 is then written as 20/2. The table below gives the number value of each letter in the alphabet. Learn this code thoroughly. Then you won’t have to keep referring to the table, which can be a slow and tedious process. The more you work with the code, the easier it will come to you. Notice that there are patterns you can learn. For example: A; J; and S, all reduce to 1. B; K; and T, reduce to 2. C; L; and U, reduce to 3... and so on. Train yourself by saying over and over: AJS. AJS. AJS. BKT. BKT. BKT. There are memory tricks you can use. For instance: number 6 is FOX. That’s an easy one. GPY sounds something like gypsy for number 7 - and number 8, HQZ, might remind you of headquarters. Use your own memory pegs so that the code will be readily accessible when working out the value of words. We can reduce any word to a number vibration by using our table, so let’s experiment with a few words before we begin with names. Place the number value above each letter, add the values, and reduce the total to a single digit, if necessary. There are 4 double digits which are not generally reduced. These are called the master numbers. Master numbers offer more opportunity for expression and thus demand more effort from the individual or thing in question. The master numbers are 11, 22, 33, and 44. Whenever you arrive at one of these numbers, retain the master number value. For instance: take the word "LIGHT". 3 + 9 + 7 + 8 + 2 equals 29, and 2 + 9 equals 11. Because “light” vibrates to master number 11, it is written as 29/11 rather than 29/2, which would be the case if we reduced it entirely. However, 2 is still acknowledged as the base number, and the word in question will fluctuate between the vibrations of 2 and 11. An individual will fluctuate between any master number and its base digit because the vibration of the master number is so intense and so powerful that it cannot be lived under continuously. Therefore, living under the base number for a brief period offers a moment of respite where one gathers one’s forces before attempting to work with the master number vibration again. Master numbers demand the greatest output from the individual, and, in return, offer the greatest reward. A name that vibrates to a master number is: MELANIE MAE CLARKE; which equals 65/11. Again, this number would not be reduced further, because it is a master number. However, this individual will fluctuate between her master number 11 and the base number 2. The word “roses” vibrates to 22: 9 + 6 + 1 + 5 + 1 equals 22. We do not reduce the 22 because it is a master number. In this system of numerology, we only use the numbers 1 to 78, for reasons which we explained in the introduction. When totaling a name, if you arrive at a number above 78, simply reduce that number to the next lower double digit or single digit, as the case may be. For example, if a personal number totals 86, add the 8 + 6, and work with the 14/5 vibration. Or if the personal number totals 106, add the 1 + 0 + 6, and work with the 7 vibration. Remember, all double digits that reduce to the same base number have the same basic meaning. The double digit reflects a variation of the single number. You could liken this to living in the same city but on different streets. Therefore, the numbers 12, 21, 30, 39, 48, 57, 66 and 75 all reflect the basic 3; however, the double digit expresses a variation of the original 3. Now that you know how to reduce any word, we will demonstrate how to arrive at your four personal numbers and explain what those numbers mean. The Life Lesson Number. The 1st of the 4 personal numbers we will discuss is called the Life Lesson Number. It represents the lessons you must learn in this lifetime and is most significant in your choice of a career. It is derived from your full birthdate. Even a business or idea has a moment of birth, and can therefore be treated in the same way. We will use as an example, Ada Wynn Lunt, born November 12, 1940. 1st, reduce the birthdate to numbers. November is the 11th month; therefore, Ada’s birthdate is written: 11 dash 12 dash 1940. Remember to write the full year of birth; not an abbreviated form such as 40. Next, reduce the year to a double digit by adding the year through once: 1 + 9 + 4 + 0 equals 14. Now we total the birthdate once more: 11 + 12 + 1940 equals 11 + 12 + 14. 11 + 12 + 14 equals 37/1. 37 is reduced by adding the 1st digit to the 2nd, or 3 + 7 which equals 10. Reduce the 10 in the same manner by adding 1 + 0. 37 is then written as 37/1. This is Ada’s Life Lesson Number. The Life Lesson Number is a constant and cannot be changed or modified in any way because it is derived from the birthdate. It indicates vocation plus the lesson you came into incarnation to overcome or to learn. It also represents the cosmic gift you are given in order to accomplish your destiny. Find your Life Lesson Number by following the same procedure. Then read the delineation of the Life Lesson Number single digit below. For a finer delineation of the double digit, go to Part 2 of this book. In our example, Ada has a 37 or 1 Life Lesson Number. She would read number 1 under the Life Lesson Number section following. She would then turn to Part 2 page 120 for the delineation of the 37 - a more explicit description of the basic number 1. 1 AS THE LIFE LESSON: You must learn to be original, strong-willed, creative and innovative. You should have the courage and drive to go ahead into new fields of expression and be a pioneer. You should always go forward, never turn back. At times you may be dictatorial and stubborn because you do not like to be restricted or directed. You are a good executive, and work best alone. You are usually efficient and well-organized. You are not naturally domestic but can manage well in any situation. You usually like sports and athletics, and enjoy the thrill of winning. You are sophisticated, not emotionally romantic, and always appear at the head of social and commercial groups. By learning the lessons of number 1, you become intimately familiar with the God energy, that probing, seeking, independent spark that moves all creation. You are creative on the physical plane because your pioneer spirit precedes all others, and expresses your unique individuality. 2 AS THE LIFE LESSON: You are here to learn to become a good mixer. You are a good salesperson, more persuasive than forceful. You should be a support for those in the leadership role, help them to find their goals in life, and remain behind the scenes if necessary. This quality can be a help to you in business because those who benefit from your talents will in turn help you make use of your abilities. In partnerships and groups, you will encounter the lessons you came to learn in this lifetime. Success is then very possible. You must have consideration for others, and should bring people together for a common cause. Various professions are open to you as you learn to be adaptable to most things that need to be done. You could select a career in finance, music, medicine, religion or statistical analysis and research. 3 AS THE LIFE LESSON: You are best in intellectual, artistic or creative endeavors. You need to express, to manifest and to see the results of your work. Beauty, fruitfulness, luxury and pleasure are your keywords. You should have ambition and pride. You must become conscious of the law, and, by being an excellent disciplinarian, you will achieve a position of authority over others. 3 combines the daring of 1 with the caution of 2. It is a number of self-expression and freedom and is extravagant in using energies to gain freedom. You must guard against becoming a jack-of-all-trades; rather, you should specialize. You could then be successful in artistic, religious or inventive pursuits. You should never do routine work because you dislike restriction. You should work alone for the best results. Business partnerships become too disciplined for your freedom-loving nature. You could write, lecture, teach or find your niche in journalism. Whatever you decide to specialize in, you must use your creative and inspirational talents. 4 AS THE LIFE LESSON: You must build a solid foundation on which to base your life. This demands a well-ordered system of conduct and morals. Administration or some sort of management would be the best type of employment for you. You want your home life to conform to the culture in which you live. You will provide well for those within your care, and you expect them to respond with respect and dignity. You should become a diligent worker and honestly earn your success. By being thrifty, you will have an adequate savings account as security against any possible losses. You should learn not to take a chance unless it is a sure bet. You should seek high goals. You might want to achieve concrete results quickly, and therefore should strive for patience and perseverance. Learn to face reality, and base all your efforts on sound practical reasoning. 5 AS THE LIFE LESSON: Your keyword is freedom. If you have free rein you can accomplish wonders, but if you feel bound or limited, you lose your enthusiasm and accomplish little. You would be a good explorer or Peace Corps volunteer, as you learn well by travel and experience. You are a diligent student if interested in the subject, but you may fail in subjects for which you see no useful ends. You should be eager for new experience, and shun monotony. In your quest for knowledge, you will become interested in discovering answers in books and magazines. An avid reader, a fluent talker, and a versatile doer, you are the witty conversationalist, and brighten any group by your mere presence. You are here to learn and to experience the value of freedom, and should not tie yourself down too severely. Your talents, once learned, prepare you for a literary career or a position in sales, and dealing with the public. 6 AS THE LIFE LESSON NUMBER: You are here to learn a sense of responsibility for your family and community. 6 is the love and domestic vibration and requires that you be responsive to the social needs of others. A fine sense of balance must be acquired so that you can equalize injustices. This keen sense bestows artistic abilities as well as judgmental talents which can be utilized in the legal system. You should develop the compassion and understanding necessary to ease the burdens of those who will naturally be drawn to you. You are among those who serve, teach and bring comfort to humanity. A wide choice of professions is yours including nursing, teaching, welfare work, the ministry, medicine, restaurant enterprises, the legal profession and possibly veterinary or animal husbandry. You may also choose to enter a career in the arts, interior decorating or hairdressing. 7 AS THE LIFE LESSON: You are here to use and to develop your mind. Your words should be full of wisdom when you decide to talk. Your strong intuition helps in any line you choose and gives insight when needed. You may be an enigma to others, and even to yourself at times. You like to read, think and meditate. Many times you have to rely on your soul-force to solve difficult material problems. You may delve into the occult, the mysterious and the phenomenal side of life. Music and other arts are in harmony with your keynotes. You may be drawn to the church, science or research and analysis. A career in mathematics or investigation could hold your interest. You should learn to spend time by yourself, in the woods or by the seashore, where you can get in touch with your inner self and your deepest thoughts because your destiny is to use your mind. 8 AS THE LIFE LESSON NUMBER: This is the number of power and ambition, the number of the executive, the boss, who lives by brain and brawn. You will learn to work and will want to see everyone else working. You can push people to become successful in their own right. You should lead and show by example how to profit in business. You are here to learn to handle power, authority and money. You can build a business empire and should work to that end. You want success for your family and for the family name as a matter of pride. You want your offspring to carry on your name with honor and dignity. Sports is another field open to you, as this number vibration bestows great strength and endurance. Many famous athletes operate under an 8. 9 AS THE LIFE LESSON NUMBER: You should be the universal lover of humanity, patient, kind and understanding. You are at the peak of life’s expression, and must turn and show others the way. You seem to receive wisdom from above; thus you know that the true way of happiness is in service to others. You are the marrying type, strong in passion and compassion. You easily acquire money or wealth, and know how to preserve it. You are never petty but deal in broad concepts and can attain success in the face of difficulties. You are here to show others the way, through your breadth of thinking. You can choose from many professions; education and medicine are the most usual. You may become an orator, writer or lecturer with equal ease. Communication, foreign service, statesmanship and leadership positions are easily within your capacity. 11 AS THE LIFE LESSON: the keywords here are altruism and community. You came into a unique and testing incarnation. You must practice “love thy neighbor as thyself” and use it as your foundation. Your strong intuitions are of value in gaining wisdom and inspiration. 11 is one of the most difficult vibrations because the demand for high standards is constant. You must learn patience and at the same time be able to make quick decisions. Seek for balance between the material, physical life which has to be considered, and the inspirational, spiritual life which underlies your self-understanding. You can succeed in the field of science, because all new inventions and discoveries such as the laser rays, research in the fields of anti-gravity or kirlian photography or any area of electronics would appeal to you. You could choose to be an astronomer or astrologer, or a Bible researcher and interpreter. You may become a teacher or writer in the field of philosophy. You are original and creative, and could become an inspirational speaker. 11 is an esoteric master number of spiritual import. It bestows courage, power and talent with strong feelings of leadership. You must not let this power go to your head, since fame and recognition are likely; instead realize that true mastership is service. 22 AS THE LIFE LESSON : You must express a basic building urge, accomplish things in a big way, and work with large groups or business concerns. You would enjoy the import-export business which could demand long-distance travel and meetings with persons of authority. You like to take an inspirational idea and put it to practical use. Self-knowledge is very valuable to you. 22 gives the promise of success. You know how to use your ability to adjust the physical laws of life and living, to demonstrate exoteric wisdom rather than esoteric. You could become an executive in banking or financial affairs in a national capacity, or help to organize businesses for others as an efficiency expert or the like. As an ambassador to foreign countries, you would demonstrate statesmanship. You like to be occupied in some large enterprise to challenge your power to achieve. Your lesson is to learn to take charge of large organizations and corporations and to handle money efficiently and usefully for the benefit of large groups of people. 33 AS THE LIFE LESSON: You should be steady and reliable and develop a strong desire to protect others. You would like to live close to nature, and this urge may influence you to choose a life in agriculture. Your goal would be to produce food on a large scale to help provide sustenance for the hungry of the world. You would never be found in any profession that could act destructively to humanity. Your talent may lie along the line of the arts — music to bring harmony, painting to bring beauty, or literature to promote education. Service in the field of medicine and healing could also attract you. Possibly you would choose the law as a way to protect others through justice. Since the 33 consciousness is almost beyond that of humanity, and is Christ-like in expression, a place within the ministry or priesthood could lead you to the realm of your dreams as a world savior. You may be required to sacrifice your own desires for the needs of others in order to fulfill your Life Lesson vibration. 44 AS THE LIFE LESSON: This number stands for strength and complete mental control over your life while on earth. It requires discipline in every department of life so that you may be instrumental in promoting the material advancement of the world. Your mind must be trained to let the higher forces work within it, and you must keep your body and your environment in order, so that you are ready for any opportunity to achieve these same results for others. Your high energy potential is meant to further evolution by helping others set their world in order. You should try to promote better ethics and justice in the world of business. You must recognize reality, then use what you learn to alleviate the physical burdens of others. You are the instrument by which this alteration takes place. By displaying bravery, resourcefulness, courage and discipline, you serve as an example for others. See Edgar Cayce in Chapter 6 as an example of the 44 vibration. The Soul Number. The Soul Number comes from adding the vowels in the name. Always work with the full name at birth. Prefixes and suffixes such as Mr., Mrs., Jr., Sr., II, III, and Esquire are not considered part of the cosmic name, and are not figured in the total name. Place the number value of the vowels above the letter in the name. The vowels are A, E, I, O, and U. The letter Y is a vowel when it sounds like E, as in the name Mary. It is not a vowel in the name May. Y is also a vowel when it is the only vowel in the syllable, as in the name Sybil. W is a vowel when it follows D or G as in the names Dwight or Gwendolyn, because it carries the vowel sound. We will use our example, Ada Wynn Lunt, born November 12, 1940. To arrive at Ada’s Soul Number, we add the vowels in her name: 1 + 1 + 7 + 3 equals 12, or 3. The Y in Wynn is considered a vowel because it is the only vowel in the name. The 12 is reduced by adding the 1st digit to the 2nd, or 1 + 2 equals 3. The number 12 is then written 12/3. Discover your Soul Number by following the same procedure. Then read the explanation of the basic Soul Number (single digit) given below. For a finer delineation of the double digit, turn to Part 2. In our example, Ada has a Soul Number of 12 or 3. She would read number 3 under the Basic Soul Number section which follows. She would then turn to Part 2 and read the number 12/3 Personal Number Vibration which gives a deeper look into her real self. Your Soul Number is your real personality, the you that is known only to you. If one embraces the philosophy of reincarnation, the Soul Number also indicates what you have been in previous lifetimes. This part of your personality is not easily recognized by others unless they know you very well. The Soul Number is what you, in your inner secret self, desire to be. This urge may be so strong that it can overcome other vibrations of your four basic numbers. Since the Soul Number reveals something of accumulated growth in past lives, it becomes an underlying force which influences the actions of your present life. If, however, the soul urge remains repressed by outer circumstances, and the soul fails to accomplish its purpose, it may need to repeat the same vibrational urge in a future life, until it finds true expression. 1 AS THE SOUL NUMBER: The leadership won in past lives now brings a desire to continue striving for higher consciousness. You are independent regarding your beliefs. Your desire for free and independent thinking continues to occupy your innermost yearning. Do not let this strong drive obstruct your attainment of practical goals in the present life. You are always conscious of your inner strength and would have difficulty taking a secondary position among your contemporaries. If marriage or partnership is considered, investigate the inner yearnings of your prospective partner to safeguard the successful outcome of your relationship. If your individuality is too strong, it could express itself as bossiness and be a detriment to personal happiness. So firm is the intensity of your focus and so strong the memory of self-glory from the past that you are apt to stand on your convictions even though it could disrupt important relationships. Your inner strength gives you something to rely on when the going is rough, and you can be a tower of inspiration to others in times of trouble. 2 AS THE SOUL NUMBER: You have a strong desire for peace and harmony. You are considerate and tactful, adaptable and gentle. You are a follower rather than a leader. Tact is a strong point in your makeup; therefore, you are a go-between or agent, helping to bring peace between opposing forces. You avoid hurting the feelings of others to the point of subordinating yourself to their wills. As a result, you appear shy and lacking in confidence. Try to overcome indecision; while you are hesitating, others may forge ahead of you and claim what should be yours. Dare to do what you know is right and do not let emotions deter your purpose. Your sensitivity can be positive when used to tune in to the balancing forces of the universe and bring forth truths which help all people gain understanding. 3 AS THE SOUL NUMBER: You are very conscientious in regard to duty. You are well aware of the law of the Trinity, and know that inspiration and imagination will bring the best results when used to help others. This could easily become your philosophy of life. Follow your urge to create and expand the activities that interest you. You seek happiness and find it in making others happy. If a person feels depressed, a visit with you will bring them hope and courage. Expand your ideals by dedicating yourself to the expression of good cheer and optimism. Work to make your dreams come true, but not to the extreme of becoming impractical. Love is important to you, both in giving and receiving; but try to hold to reason in your loving expansiveness. You become happy and well-adjusted by making others happy. 4 AS THE SOUL NUMBER: You are well organized, a trait which could bring you material success. Your practicality permeates your entire being. Others could set a pattern after your well-ordered program of living. Your loyalty, balance and dependability mean much to those around you. They know where you stand in all things and feel that any dealings with you will be handled squarely. You take matters seriously, whether in business or romance, and can therefore make your dreams come true in a planned, practical way. 5 AS THE SOUL NUMBER: You claim the right to freedom and will not allow any limitations of your ideals or ways of thinking. Variety of self-expression is absolutely essential. You would feel dull and listless without the stimulation of changes and new outlooks. Travel is one of your soul’s desires since you believe it to be educational and broadening. Narrowness cannot be tolerated. If you feel yourself falling into a rut, a trip, a new outfit or a vacation could change the vibrations for the better and open new avenues for continued inner growth. 6 AS THE SOUL NUMBER: You respond to beauty, harmony and peace. You are affectionate, sympathetic and loyal to those you love. Your mission could be to teach others to maintain peace and harmony in their lives and to spread the idea of the Golden Rule. You work hard to keep domestic harmony as your ideal way of life. Of all the love vibrations in the various numbers, yours is the most likely to be guilty of a smothering love, so deep is your desire to live for your own immediate family. Learn to allow your family members to express their own desires in life, even if you do not agree with their choices. 7 AS THE SOUL NUMBER: You are quiet and reserved, a good thinker, analyzer and mediator. You need peaceful surroundings and become irritable if your environment is noisy. You are refined, sensitive, secretive and usually psychic. You may live alone and remain unmarried. You could be celibate and join the higher mystical order of humanity. Your true nature is to be calm, to develop depth of character, and thus to benefit humanity through philosophy. 8 AS THE SOUL NUMBER: Ambition is your keyword. You believe in accomplishment and let no obstacle deter you in attaining your goal. Your number is not an easy one to handle, but the rewards are worth your effort. You are one who will tackle a big job in order to rise above the crowd and arrive at the pinnacle. You have the ability to organize large groups and undertakings successfully. Psychology will help you understand the masses with whom you may work. Others expect more of you than of the average person, so you must rely upon your inner self to guide you to stay at the top. This is the number of high-ranking sports figure. 9 AS THE SOUL NUMBER: Intuition is strongly active in your life. You are sensitive and imaginative and can think in abstract terms. Although you may appear vague at times, you are extremely impressionable, compassionate and generous. You need to have and to give love. You are kind and forgiving, with an expansive consciousness dedicated to uplifting humanity. This could be the number of a master or adept from a previous lifetime. 11 AS THE SOUL NUMBER: You have been on the spiritual path for a long time, probably for more than one incarnation. Through spiritual evolution you have learned much of the mysteries of life and death. You have courage, talent and leadership ability. You are understanding, wise, intuitive and often clairvoyant, with extremely sensitive ESP abilities and strong spiritual leanings. You also have the fortitude to contend with many changes and unexpected events. 22 AS THE SOUL NUMBER: With the power of 22 you have the urge to continue the tangible achievements of past lifetimes. You desire material fulfillment. You are the master builder. Your soul’s aim is to leave the world a tangibly better place for your having been here, so it follows that you must keep mental balance while expressing your ideals in practical ways. You have higher goals than the average person. You should keep your feet on the ground while your thoughts expand. 33 AS THE SOUL NUMBER: You are ready to sacrifice for humanity. You see clearly a vision of future world conditions and feel ready to help in any way you can to bring peace to all mankind. Sometimes your life lesson vibrations can be in opposition to your soul’s urges; nevertheless, you will practice generosity and try to see other people’s points of view. This circumstance may force you temporarily to take a background position but the hope remains that you will reach a position to promote your ideals. You stand ever ready to help others. 44 AS THE SOUL NUMBER: Universal concepts are part of your consciousness; they now express themselves as inner urges to accomplish great advances in world culture. You desire to unite the practical with the philosophical. A career within the government or in the United Nations could give you the opportunity to promote these ideals among all peoples. You are willing to shoulder heavy responsibilities. Your inner self realizes that it is adept; now the problem becomes how to manifest it in the outer world. You believe that your soul will guide you into fields where your great expectations can be promoted. You have an innate ability to solve everyday problems and can work with others to help them organize their lives. The Outer Personality Number. Now that you have discovered the real you through your Soul Number, let us determine how other people see you. Your Outer Personality Number indicates how you appear to others; it is not necessarily what you really are. The Outer Personality Number also shows what people expect from you because of the image you present. To find the Outer Personality Number, add the values of the consonants in the full name at birth. Consonants are all those letters other than vowels. Place the value of the consonants below the name, and add each digit together. In our example, Ada Wynn Lunt: 4 + 5 + 5 + 5 + 3 + 5 + 2 equals 29/11. 29 reduces by adding the 1st digit to the 2nd, or 2 + 9 equals 11. 11 is a master number and is therefore not reduced further. Other people see Ada Wynn Lunt as a 29/11, although this is not what she necessarily is. As in the preceding section, the basic numbers will be delineated here. Ada would read 11 as an Outer Personality Number, and then turn to Part 2 of this book for a finer delineation of the basic 11 as a 29/11. If your Outer Personality Number were 49/4, for instance, you would read 4 as an Outer Personality Number here, then turn to Part 2 to read 49/4 as a Personal Number Vibration, which is a finer delineation of the basic 4. Personality comes from the word persona meaning mask and therefore represents the mask we present to others. It is important because through it other basic vibrational urges are expressed. A pleasing personality is a great asset in all areas of life to help attain spiritual, mental or physical goals. Our body language, mannerisms, and traits, even the way we dress, reveal much more than we realize. They are clues which others use to determine our attitudes and characteristics. 1 AS THE OUTER PERSONALITY NUMBER: You present an independent, capable and executive-type image to the world. Others see you as a unique individual, separate from the ordinary crowd, perhaps a loner in some respects, but definitely different. They expect you to be able to take control of any situation and be able to run an organization or club efficiently. They will look to you to get the job done because you appear to be the leader, the pioneer, the idea person who always knows where to go and what to do. The creation of the correct image is foremost in your mind, and you depend upon the force of your personality as your identification pass into society. You may appear to be overly aggressive and domineering. In this case, your selfish need to assert your individuality is realized at the expense of the free expression of those around you. You, as a number 1 person, dress to be among the first in style. You like exclusive models and never want to look like anyone else. Negatively, you may even dress freakishly or in modes beyond the limits of good taste. 2 AS THE OUTER PERSONALITY NUMBER: You appear quiet and modest and seem to need a peaceful environment in which to live. You are fussy about details; neatness and cleanliness are a must. Rather than make a big entrance, you prefer to remain in the background, working behind the scenes or in cooperation with others. You are attractive and popular with the opposite sex. This is partly due to your desire for companionship and harmony which prompts you to indulge others. You seem incomplete by yourself. You can appear to be restless and dissatisfied with conditions because of the mental balancing you perform on every situation. You may have difficulty in making decisions because both sides are so clear to you. On occasion, you can display a temper and use cutting words. You dress neatly and inconspicuously, preferring a balanced, pleasing look. You should choose easy-to-wear styles of clothing that reflect your more passive and artistic nature. 3 AS THE OUTER PERSONALITY NUMBER: You are extremely charming, affable and sociable. You have an attractive manner and desire pleasure and fun. Loyalty and honesty enhance your idealistic nature. Communication is a vital part of your personality, and you have a facile manner of expression. An avid conversationalist, you shine in the midst of any group. You are like the sun, lighting up the world of those you encounter, spreading sunshine and optimism wherever you go. Others naturally cluster around your warmth. Your extroverted popularity can become so great that it could cause your downfall through conceit and jealousy. Then your conversational talents may degenerate into gossip, exaggeration and superficiality. If you are a woman, you may be beautiful, with a well-rounded figure. You like personal adornment - jewelry, scarves, makeup - and have an artistic flair in choosing your clothing. On the negative side, you can possess a slovenly beauty and be careless about the styles you choose and the way you care for your clothing. 4 AS THE OUTER PERSONALITY NUMBER: You present a determined, work-oriented attitude to the world. You appear conservative, self-disciplined and practical. You desire an orderly existence through which your ability for physical and mental application will produce conventional and useful results. You are the honest, hard-working type who respects values and industry. You like the earth, nature, your home and country. You can appear so disciplined that there is no time for play, which can isolate you from others. Overly cautious and frugal, you can become defensive and stingy. Crudeness and bad temper could remove you further from social contacts. Or, as an opposite reaction, you could appear completely undisciplined and lazy. Good sports clothes appeal to you, as they are designed for hard use and need little care. You select your clothes for service, insist on good quality materials, and often have them tailormade. You want to look neat and trim at all times. You are conservative in dress as well as conduct. 5 AS THE OUTER PERSONALITY NUMBER: You are a good conversationalist, bright, sparkling and witty, and will therefore have much interchange with groups of people. You are magnetic to the opposite sex and possess strong sensual appetites. Because change and freedom are so essential, there may be a quick turnover in your relationships. You like constant activity, variety and change and believe that change is progress. You must be able to do what you want, when and how you want to do it, in order to produce up to your capacity. You have a natural curiosity and are likely to take chances. Others see you as a natural salesperson, advertiser or promoter. Overdoing social interchange and desire for sensual indulgences can lead to excesses in eating, drinking, drugs or sexual contacts. You can become fickle, restless and undependable. You like to be among the best dressed on the fashion list or at least be ahead in style, and you wear bright colors in good taste. 6 AS THE OUTER PERSONALITY NUMBER: You emanate a protective vibration and a sense of responsibility for others. People are drawn to you for counseling, teaching and healing because you have a motherly or fatherly appearance which lends comfort and security. The home seems very important to you. You are optimistic, cheerful and reliable. You appear to love beauty and all things connected with the arts. You have a fine sense of balance and symmetry and can therefore see all the pieces as separate and yet part of the whole. A social consciousness urges you to seek truth and justice. You could become a slave to others, especially in the home, and your social responsibility could degenerate into social irresponsibility or interference in the affairs of others. In choosing clothing, you are careful yet display an artistic flair, preserving a tasteful color harmony in whatever combinations you choose. You prefer comfortable, easy to wear styles rather than exclusive models, although you are particular in choosing soft and flowing materials. Negatively, you could be a casual housekeeper and be careless about how you dress. 7 AS THE OUTER PERSONALITY NUMBER: You have the appearance of being a loner, enjoying your moments of solitude away from the crowds. Nature and periodic trips into the woods or time spent by the seashore provide the proper climate for your philosophic temperament. There is an air of mystery and secrecy about you. You seem to be the philosopher, mystic, poet, thinker, scientist and researcher whose temporary withdrawals allow time for further probing. A keen power of observation aids you in mentally analyzing any situation. You have an aristocratic air, a personal dignity and a refined manner and seem to possess an unshakable faith in the future. If you become tangled in materialism, you will find only disappointment and lose your poise and become frustrated, gloomy and withdrawn. Confusion, fear and pessimism then take over. You are neat, well-groomed and inclined towards wearing pastels or dark shades. You avoid loud colors and dress in good taste. If you become unhappy, you are then indifferent to the way you dress, and neglect the so-called petty details of color, harmony and matching outfits. 8 AS THE OUTER PERSONALITY NUMBER: You have a dynamic personality and people recognize your authority because you appear affluent and in control. There is an air of the executive about you; one who can manage big business and direct the affairs of commerce. You emanate a personal power and strength which brings recognition wherever you go. You appear authoritative, impartial and ethical. You seem to possess an endless font of physical stamina and endurance. Your personal power could lead you into situations where you might abuse that power. Materialism then overcomes your better judgments and you can become retaliatory and cruel if crossed. A successful appearance is your standard and you insist your clothes be well made and of good materials. You would never wear cheap articles. Carried to extremes, you appear flashy, the gambler or sport, desiring to impress others by wearing loud clothes and by flaunting large rolls of bills. A female might wear too many jewels and exhibit expensive clothes even though they may have come from the thrift shop. 9 AS THE OUTER PERSONALITY NUMBER: You appear to have a breadth of understanding as well as a personal magnetism that is universal in scope. Your warm, friendly and charming manner pleases all you come in contact with, and the selflessness that you emanate makes you loved by many. You seem to have a tolerance and compassion for others that allows you to forgive and forget easily. You are generous towards the needy and exemplify humanitarian traits. Others see you as emotional and romantic, as the idealist who believes that the progress of the world justifies personal sacrifice. Emotionalism can overtake you, and then you become susceptible to every sad story that comes along. At this point, you scatter your energies and emotions wastefully. Bitterness can result. You dress artistically with a dramatic flair, although you desire that your clothes be smooth-fitting and comfortable. You may be beautiful in face and figure, and if you take care of your skin and maintain good posture, you may remain young-looking for years. 11 AS THE OUTER PERSONALITY NUMBER: You are an inspiration to others who see in you a refinement and an artistic genius which moves their very soul. Avant-garde art is your preference and you seem to epitomize unusual and innovative techniques. Recognition and fame may very likely be bestowed upon you because of artistic or humanitarian endeavors. You appear to be the visionary who believes in equal opportunity for all regardless of sex, race, creed or color. Your idealism can degenerate into egocentricity in which case your many talents are dissipated or lie fallow. Your mind then seeks unhealthy outlets for its genius which can bring notoriety. Your eyes emit a spiritual light that can inspire others to achieve their potential, as they witness what you have done. Your dress is original in style and you may design your own clothes because you have the artistic flair and inventiveness to do so, and you prefer to be different. 22 AS THE OUTER PERSONALITY NUMBER: You appear as the masterly, diplomatic type who can handle all situations in a practical, efficient manner. You seem to have control over the material world and have the ability to make profound changes that could alter the course of history. You are a super-power who gives freely of finances to charity and organizations that benefit large groups of people. Your power can extend to the international level; you should perform material service for the world. Unprecedented power placed in your hands can cause you to become power-hungry and, rather than serve others, you may exploit them out of greed. You then become indifferent to the needs of others and are not above committing dishonest acts to achieve your goals. You are usually careful about your dress, choosing high quality materials and conservative styles. Clothes fit you as though they were made especially for you. 33 AS THE OUTER PERSONALITY NUMBER: You strike others as modest, humble and charitable. You always seem to gravitate to places where you are needed and you give more than you receive. Generous at all times, you do not look for rewards; you appear to be a natural giver. You love children and animals, and express kindness and tenderness towards them. People feel they can tell you their problems and you will understand. Sensitivity to the woes of others can lead you into futile self-sacrifice, and you deny yourself for others who often have no intention of bettering themselves. Then your martyrdom is useless, falling on barren ground. You dress in dignified styles, choosing your clothes carefully. Your conduct is proper and refined. 44 AS THE OUTER PERSONALITY NUMBER: You have a disciplined, almost military bearing, walking straight with shoulders held high. This inspires confidence in you from others wherever you go. You seem to know where you are going, what you are going to do, and how you are going to do it. There is a down-to-earth practical quality about you that comforts others. They sense that your common sense can solve their everyday problems and set the material world back in order for them. You may be so earth-oriented that you become mired in drudgery and responsibility. Then you lose sight of the source from which you sprang. At this point, your spiritual progress will suffer. You enjoy wearing a uniform-type outfit and often buy tailored clothing. You may add a military touch, using stripes, bars or distinctive buttons in an effective manner. The Path of Destiny. You have at this point explored your Life Lesson Number (your birthdate), your Soul Number (the vowels in your name) and your Outer Personality Number (the consonants in your name). We will now take the total of your entire name, which is determined by adding the unreduced Soul Number and the unreduced Outer Personality Number together. This is your Path of Destiny Number. It shows what you must do in this lifetime, what you came here to manifest. By adding the unreduced Soul Number to the unreduced Outer Personality Number in Ada Wynn Lunt’s name, we arrive at 41/5. Ada Wynn Lunt’s Path of Destiny Number is 41/5, and this is what she must do as a lifetime pursuit. Ada would now read 5 as the basic Path of Destiny Number in the following section. She would then turn to Part 2 and read 41/5 as a Personal Number Vibration, which is a finer delineation of the basic 5 vibration. This number represents your aim in life; in other words, it shows the path you must walk, what you should accomplish, what you must be. Although you may modify it somewhat by name changes, the birthname destiny is always the power behind any change, and will persist in its desire for expression throughout your life. 1 AS THE PATH OF DESTINY: You represent the real “I am” conscious of self as the center of your world, concerned with your individual desires and seeking self-preservation above all else. You use your resources for your own pleasure and have little interest in the needs of others. This is not necessarily bad, since you are here to develop the self but you must not allow this to be carried to the extreme of selfishness. You may be a newcomer to the earth plane where all beginning lessons are to be learned. The words you most often use are “I” and “I am.” Leadership is your keyword, and you must accept the destiny of leading while others follow. Your own independent initiative will help you attain success through your determination to stand for your beliefs even under duress. By exhibiting self-reliance and demonstrating your ability to win, you will succeed under all circumstances. 2 AS THE PATH OF DESTINY: Your desire for peace puts you in the role of a peacemaker. Your destiny could lead you to act as ambassador of good will to foreign nations and thus bring untold benefits to all mankind. Use your inborn tact and diplomacy to handle difficult situations in life. A mission as peacemaker is a magic gift for creating a better world in which to live. You also have a keen sense of opposites which allows you to develop your talents along creative lines. By expanding this awareness, you not only maximize your artistic potential, but you also enhance your abilities as a mediator and a useful companion. You become an integral part of any organization or group with which you become affiliated. 3 AS THE PATH OF DESTINY NUMBER: You have talents which give you a choice of occupations or hobbies. Your destiny is that of one who uplifts and inspires others. You should play center stage and develop your talent for expression and communication through drama, elocution or foreign languages. Explore the arts. Study the religions of the world. This could be a constructive outlet for your energies, since you have a natural inclination toward spiritual philosophies. Your occupation could encompass therapy for others, as well as self-improvement. If you wish to be a success, use your time wisely. Do not scatter your energies in too many directions at once and thus postpone the accomplishment of a worthwhile destiny. Promote friendship among your peers by being a friend when a friend is needed. You spread joy and sunshine through your ability for self-expression. Keep optimism as your trademark. 4 AS THE PATH OF DESTINY: Your destiny is to build tangible and useful products. You need to see what you have built. 4 is the builder of the world, the rock upon which all earthly substance is formed. You are well organized in your thinking and can manage your particular establishment with efficiency. You emanate a quality of stability. As a result, others will rely on you to get the job done efficiently and properly. You handle money well and might therefore find the financial world a fertile spot for your talents. Your keywords are impatience, honesty, determination and confidence. You demand obedience in the family and will practice self-denial in order to fulfill duties, either real or imagined. Your keen sense of value makes you dislike the mediocre. You know that what is worth having is worth working and waiting for. 5 AS THE PATH OF DESTINY: Many changes occur in your life, and your mission might well be to promote progress through a willingness to accept change. You are definitely not keyed to the old order or to outworn ideas and set principles. You are willing to adopt new concepts and new points of understanding, even to the extent of daring to claim the liberty to suggest new ways of doing things, and you have the ability to present the new in logical and acceptable terms. You make stepping stones of changes and cleverly turn them into growth experiences. You do not, however, forget conventions since you are really not a rebel. Instead, you propose new ideas to promote enlightenment; you have the courage and willingness to let go of the old and experiment with the new. You are very fluent and expressive with words and could find writing, lecturing or selling the perfect outlet for these talents. 6 AS THE PATH OF DESTINY: This is a domestic vibration. You love home and family life. You are the marrying type and your family is your main interest. You are morally good and respectable, trustworthy and generous. You like the comforts and luxuries of life. You are a good mixer, a good host or hostess; you greet and mingle with everyone present at any social gathering. You are proud of your possessions and even enjoy showing off your family’s talents and accomplishments. You should train your artistic talents so that you can share your aesthetic sense and appreciation of beauty with others. Many famous individuals in the arts worked under this vibration, expressing fully their deep and abiding love for others through their work. 7 AS THE PATH OF DESTINY: Your depth of character and seriousness destine you to be a teacher of ethics. You psychically separate the true from the false and can discover and reveal some of the mysteries of life to a waiting world. You should become the thinker, the philosopher, the scientist, the mystic or the religious zealot whose destiny is the mind. Some may see you as strange and hard to understand, but they will follow your teachings and seek your counsel when they are troubled. Your example and public image could benefit a whole community and eventually the world. You find strength in solitude, wisdom in moments of silence, and strength in your own knowledge. In ancient days, those born under 7 were placed in the temple to become priests or priestesses because all were aware of their mental powers. Develop your mental powers; the world will benefit. 8 AS THE PATH OF DESTINY: You have magnificent courage and stamina, and you will attain your goals through your own efforts. Recognition, success and wealth are your proper destiny. Perseverance in your career and long hours of intensive work backed up by ambition are what carry you to the top executive position in your chosen field. No lesser position would be acceptable to you. You need, however, to couple your material forces with the spiritual, and to attain mastery over yourself before you can attain and hold the position you visualize for your life’s work. Some people with this number vibration use their tremendous strength and endurance in the sports field and become outstanding athletes, thereby expressing their determination to be at the top in sports rather than in the business world. However, many famous athletes end up in business when their sports careers have ended. 9 AS THE PATH OF DESTINY: Perfection is your goal, but it is rarely attained on this plane. Your mission is a charitable one. You may meet many tests and setbacks, but the lesson of forgiveness will bring temperance to those situations. The higher you evolve, the more tests you are apt to meet, so guard against losing balance. You strive to live an ideal life and hope to inspire others to do the same. You desire to better the world through philosophy and philanthropy and become impatient when results come slowly. You need to realize that evolution occurs only in long cycles of time. You will meet many famous people in your lifetime who will be impressed by the breadth of your thinking. You should learn not to cling to old associations. When you have fulfilled your role with an individual, you must move on. You cannot be limited to a small circle of friends. Your broad philosophy must touch and enlighten the lives of many. 11 AS THE PATH OF DESTINY: Your gift of prophecy places you in the position where selfless service to humanity can be expressed, a difficult goal to live up to at best. You could work as a leader in public or civic affairs in your community and promote better standards of living for the more unfortunate. Your career drive could express itself through acting on stage or screen, or as a dynamic preacher or teacher. Your own standard of deportment should be above the average. You should achieve fame or recognition in some way, and since this vibration bestows great creative potential, the arts or inventive professions are your most likely choices. You have the ability to tap the creative source and imbue your work with an inspirational touch that will affect the souls of those who come into contact with whatever you create. You are truly inspired. 22 AS THE PATH OF DESTINY: You have confidence in your ability to lead and therefore naturally assume great responsibility. This fulfills your urge for important accomplishments. Once you have assumed your position of great power and wealth, you will want to participate in new mass movements in important civic and community projects. You are the super materialist whose influence can be world-wide. You are a creator on the material plane; you build in a large way. Bridges, hospitals, museums and other such structures are the visible products you leave to the world, products that serve to aid and enlighten mankind. Your influence is so far reaching that you must guard against unethical motives because you will ultimately affect many lives. Serve well and you will be rewarded in direct proportion. 33 AS THE PATH OF DESTINY: Your mission is self-sacrifice and service to others. You often undergo crucifixion in your emotions and suffer for the woes of the world. Your actions are tempered by compassion through your understanding of right and justice. You often find that you must live impersonally with a detached but caring attitude, and realize that the way in which you handle the burdens placed on you will be a supreme example for others. Others sense your understanding nature and are naturally drawn to you for comfort and solace. By answering their needs, you find the fulfillment this number demands of you. If you are not living up to the master number 33, you can live it as a 6. You may then develop a martyr complex and get little appreciation for your sacrifices. 44 AS THE PATH OF DESTINY NUMBER: This master number vibration demands great discipline and perseverance and the ability to make the best of any given situation. You are very resourceful, drawing upon your great wells of common sense and logic to solve any problems that arise. Your destiny is to serve the material needs of the world through productive and sound techniques. Edgar Cayce, a 44, solved the health problems of thousands. He served their material needs. You must gain complete mastery over your mind and body while here on earth. Your desire should be that others may share in universal prosperity and you should set about to construct situations in which this is possible. You seek to better the world in a physical way. The Significance of the 1st Vowel in the First Name. The ancients considered vowels the sacred elements in the alphabet. They thought that the first vowel was the vibration upon which the soul entered the body. It has been found that the first vowel does indeed have a profound influence upon the individual, and that, if one has an abundance of that same first vowel throughout the entire name, the quality of that vowel is enhanced. There are 3 things to look for when reading the first vowel in your name: 1. the meaning of the vowel itself; 2. how many of that same vowel there are in the entire name; and 3. what, if anything, precedes that vowel. If there are more than 3 of the first vowel in the whole name, it means that there is too much of that particular characteristic, and the person may be overbalanced in the direction of that attribute. The following delineation of the vowels is very general and is meant only as a guide to aid in assessing the individuality of the person under consideration within the context of the total numerological analysis. A AS THE FIRST VOWEL in the first name: You are bold, independent, inquisitive and interested in research. You know what you want and why you want it. If A is the first vowel and there are 2 A’s in the entire name, you are a clear thinker. If A is the first vowel and there are more than 3 A’s, you can be egotistical, cynical and even critical. E AS THE FIRST VOWEL: You have an eventful, exciting life. You are versatile and have the ability to learn easily, but may be nervous and temperamental. If E is the first vowel and there are more than 3 E’s in the name, you may have a fickle nature. I AS THE FIRST VOWEL: You are intuitive and interested in the arts, drama and/or science. If I is the first vowel and there are more than 3 I’s in the name, you are sensitive, shy and too emotional. O AS THE FIRST VOWEL in the first name: You are frank, methodical and believe in law, system and order. If O is the first vowel and there are more than 3 O’s in the name, you can be obstinate, slow and monotonous. U AS THE FIRST VOWEL in the first name: You have a universal mind capable of great ideas and a broad viewpoint. You love to accumulate material things. Symbolically, the U is a cup that holds, therefore you may become a collector. If U is the first vowel and there are more than 3 U’s you may experience loss and selfishness because the cup spills over and the contents are lost. When W is the first vowel in the first name, it vibrates like a double U. Y AS THE FIRST VOWEL in the first name: It has the same significance as E or I, according to the sound produced. To determine when Y is used as a vowel, consider the pronunciation. In the name May or Wayne, Y is not a vowel but if Y has a separate sound, as in the name Floyd, it is counted as a double vowel diphthong since the sound of the Y is distinguishable in the pronunciation. In a name such as Lynn or Wynn, where the Y is the only vowel sound, it is counted as a vowel. In the names Yvonne or Yvette, Y as the first vowel has the sound of E. Also, in a name such as Mary or Harry, Y is a vowel because it sounds like E. One last note on the vowel or consonant Y. Its two-pronged structure could symbolically indicate its double usage in the alphabet. As a vowel sound, Y could become the 27th letter in the alphabet to complete the 9th vibration presently missing. (I equals 9; R equals 18 or 9; Y equals 27 or 9). Pythagoras considered Y such a high mystical letter that at one time he took the name of Yarancharya to experience its vibration first hand. If the name contains 2 vowels together, as in the name Faith, then read the qualities of both vowels. For example, Faith indicates a person who is independent, interested in research (A), and also very intuitive, a lover of music and the arts (I). We do not count the vowels in the name beyond the 1st vowel combination unless there are identical adjoining vowels later in the name. In the name "Faith May Winter", we consider AI as the first vowel. Because the AI combination appears nowhere else in the name, the first AI stands as the only one of that vowel. The A in May and the I in Winter are considered separately. Conversely, should the name be Faith Daisy Waite, we would have 3 AI vowels to consider. The following is a list of diphthongs and double vowels in sample names. Triple vowels, such as in the name Louise, would also combine the qualities of the 3 vowels. Other meanings of the vowels will be found in the list of the ABC’s in Chapter 5, which gives the meanings of the individual letters of the alphabet. Your Personal Year. We live our lives in 9 year cycles, incorporating the universal principles of the numbers 1 thru 9. When we finish the 9th cycle, we begin again with 1 and proceed again through the 9 numbers. This cycle occurs over and over throughout our lifetime. Look back 9 years from this moment, and you will find that you are experiencing not the exact events but a similar type vibration. For instance, 9 years ago you might have been saving money to build a home; now you may be saving to send a child to college. The event is different, but the underlying theme is the same: budgeting money. If you know what to expect in any given cycle, you can live in tune with your particular vibration, and make your life easier, happier and more productive. To find your present personal year, simply add the month and day of your birth to the year of your last birthday. For example: November 12, 1940 is the birthdate of Ada Wynn Lunt. To determine Ada’s present vibration, we will add the date. 11 + 12 + 1975. (1975 was the year of her last birthday as of this book's writing.) Remember, we do not use the year of birth, but rather the year of the last birthday. If you were born on February 29, use February 29 regardless of whether the year in question had a February 29th or not. Ada, in 1975, is in a 45 or 9 personal year. The personal year runs from the birthday of one year to the birthday of the next year, not from January to December as the general calendar runs. Therefore, Ada will be in a 45 or 9 personal year from November 12, 1975 to November 12, 1976, even though most of her personal year, 1975, runs into the calendar year 1976. Ada would then turn to Part 2 and read number 9 under the section entitled 9 as a Temporary Vibration. She would then read 45 or 9 as a Temporary Vibration, which is a finer description of the underlying 9 Temporary Vibration. Note that we are not reading the number as a Personal Vibration. The numerical meanings of a Personal Number and a Temporary Vibration are the same; however, you must put them in their proper perspectives. If a number is your Personal Number, it is with you for a lifetime. If it is a Temporary Vibration, you experience it for a short time. So, from her November 12, 1975 birthday to her November 12, 1976 birthday Ada will be temporarily experiencing a 45 or 9 vibration. You can follow the same procedure for any given year of your life to find out what happened or what is going to happen. Merely choose the time you are investigating, for instance, the summer of 1946, or the fall of 1987, and from there determine the year of your last birthday at that time. Then add that year to your month and day of birth to find your personal year vibration. Period Numbers. We can divide the personal