SOURCE: HexStrike MCP Hacking Tutorial (ZeroDay Gym)
URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PQOwpjZXzMo
CHUNK: 3/3 - Challenge Results and Conclusion

---

So our AI has stopped analyzing and let's see if it actually was able to do this. Uh from what I can see what it did to solve it. It was using execute Python script and it was creating this Python script for executing the file and then we can see that it actually has solved the challenge and it got the flag. So let's see what's the write up here. So vulnerability ask command injection via unic code normalization bypass and it is giving us the critical uh flaw in the application I guess and then it says that it can be bypassed by uni code because what it's doing it's replacing the quote uh with underscore and then uh because it is replacing only the quote we can bypass it uh bypass ing uh this uh uni code full with apostrophe to the application and then we can just print environment the flag variable.

So let's actually see if it is correct. Uh I guess we can just copy and paste it here. Let's submit and uh we actually didn't get get the flag print environment flag and they got replaced um through the browser. It's not working. I actually haven't solved this challenge myself. I haven't tried it. Uh but it looks like it's not uh really difficult. You just have to know that uh uh uni code bypass and is it is a pretty straightforward command injection. Uh but uh what actually is important in our case is that the AI managed to solve this challenge.

I guess uh you could personalize the AI and just tell it that you only want it to execute commands through Kylo for example and use Kylo WCP server which I can talk in another video. I have it set up right here. It's called Abka Kylo AI. Um if you want to hear about that, please let me uh know in the comments. But in this case, it was using Python solving and we couldn't like debug what it was doing uh or anything like that.

We can set up a lot of different MCP servers to to uh claude. And uh if you don't know it probably in here, it's like 250 MCP servers. I tried setting it up in uh VS Code, but it couldn't even load for me because there were too many MCP servers there uh or MCP clients I guess. Uh not actually sure what's the correct terminology there. Uh but yeah, it is a really good suit for CTF, ethical hacking, bug bounty. It even advertises as bug bounty CTF red team zero research uh AI here. So, it actually is really good and we can see that that's the correct lag.

Well, I'm not actually going to uh solve this challenge myself. Uh let's uh ask it uh can you provide me with curl request? Give us a curl command. It gave us with the cookie here. Uh those headers are not necessary. It could stroke them, but I guess it's not doing that. Um and then let's copy this. Grab a Doge. Nope. It's not giving us the flag. I guess uh curl doesn't work. Uh where did it actually store the Python script? Oh, it was just executing the Python code. I see. Did it create the exploit file? It's in temp hackri files. This. So, let's try to execute it. Oh, it wants us to give it the JWT token. But yeah, as we can see, we got the flag and we have the dojo goes to Cebu.

Um, let's try to I just wanted just want to like modify this script so I can uh see what's the output. And uh it's just extracting HTML and then put it putting it to hex dump and then extracting it. So, what I'm going to do, I'm going to print uh decode it and then I'm going to try to execute the script again. Decoding hex dump. Oh, I just actually just printed the flag. Uh what I'm going to do is just go to response and then print response.ext. We can still see that print environment flag, which is weird. Not actually sure I'm getting into the challenge itself here. It's probably this. So, that's the hex dump of the flag probably. Um, let's see. Let's copy. Let's just copy these characters and then go to cyber chef. It's like reversed flag. Well, it's interesting.

But yeah, uh I'm not here to solve the challenge. Uh I was here to showcase this AI. I find I found it really really cool. Um and I hope you find some good usage for it. And if you That's probably going to be it for the video. Uh if you enjoyed it, please make sure to leave a like and subscribe to my channel and comment if you want to see more content like this because uh I see that a lot of people are actually interested in this content. So if there's a lot of uh like if a lot of people want to see it, then I will probably record more videos. But for now, that's going to be it. Thank you for watching and I will see you in the next video. Goodbye.
